---
title: 2024-12-04
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   04 December 2024

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Andrew Grimberg, LF RelEng
* Gary Oberbrunner, OpenFX
* Stephen Mackenzie, Rez
* Ibrahim Sani Kache, Dreamworks
* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks / OSL / OIIO

## Apologies

*

## New items

* Last meeting of the year, no meeting on 2025-01-01
  * Thank you to every one for participating!

* GitHub Actions broken with CentOS 7 container images
  * Affects VFX2022 and older container
  * Env variable workaround to revert to glibc-2.17 compatible NodeJS 16 no longer works
  * Node provides [semi-official build of NodeJS 20 linked against glibc-2.17](https://unofficial-builds.nodejs.org/download/release/v20.18.1/node-v20.18.1-linux-x64-glibc-217.tar.xz)
  * Use Docker volume trickery to overlay NodeJS 20 binary provided by GHA runner
  * [Proof of concept](https://github.com/jfpanisset/gha-centos7/blob/main/.github/workflows/vfx2022.yml)
  * [OIIO integrates workaround](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenImageIO/pull/4543)
  * Gary: should work for OpenFX, was going to build a custom version of NodeJS, was going to follow that approach.

* 2025 aswf-docker images
  * Significant progress, common (Rocky8 + NVIDIA + Clang) and base1 packages build
  * Work In Progress: [https://github.com/jfpanisset/aswf-docker](https://github.com/jfpanisset/aswf-docker)
  * Approaches to minimize differences from Conan Center Index recipes
    * Add a From: comment with hash of specific GitHub version our vendored version if based on
    * Tag local changes with `ASWF` comment
    * Use empty wrapper packages to wrap system provided libraries
      * Some Conan Center Index recipes significantly "query" packages as to their build options, can't just comment out `requires`
      * Conan Center Index starting to look like a full OS distribution
    * Use Conan profiles to remap requirements to wrappers or specific versions, for instance point any bzip2 requirement to our 1.0.8, or any libdeflate to our wrapper around system installed:
      ```
      [replace_requires]
      bzip2/*: bzip2/1.0.8@aswftesting/vfx2025
      libdeflate/*: libdeflate/wrapper@aswftesting/vfx2025
      ```
    * Looking at adopting [config.yml](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/tree/master/recipes/openexr) mechanism to deal with significant forking of recipes between major package versions
      * But recipes for older package versions may not be getting updated to Conan 2
  * Working on ASWF-specific packages (converting more to Conan)
  * Any specific requirements for a OpenFX-specific build container?
    * Gary: building using ci-base image, with my own patches
    * JF: will try to provide a ci-openfx image with all the requirements
    * Gary: look at build.yml, we don't use a lot in there, OpenFX tries to be dependency free as much as possible, no Boost, any Python 3 that's not too old will work
  * Any use for a Rez build component?
    * Stephen: Rez doesn't have C++ except for a couple of vendored Python libraries
    * There has been discussion of implementing a compiled version of the "version" module in Rez where computation time is spent, regex processing for instance to compute characteristics of version tokens.
    * Every time someone volunteers to do that, it didn't complete (attempts at C++ and Rust one)
    * As of yet, no C++ components, could be in the future.
    * Interesting to ask the question, Rez packages up C++ stuff, would be interested in seeing a matching route that could build the same packages and store them as Rez packages instead of Docker images / Conan packages.
    * Would be great to build the whole ASWF ecosystem as Rez packages, native to the build system / glibc we've compiled with.
    * We don't have remote package repository yet, so in the future.
    * JF: Rez plugin for Artifactory? Stephen: Yes. We could "side load" the Conan builds, unpack it and repack it. It's a bit different since the Docker container has all the dependencies, you want your build to work on just the requirements in the package dependencies. We could repackage conan into Rez.
    * JF: don't want to build our own distribution!
  * Aiming for end of year initial release of 2025 images

* Disk space clearing on free runners
  * [Sample code](https://github.com/jfpanisset/aswf-docker/blob/7840b9817585790a70503b8a5a77474635df00d0/.github/workflows/docker-builds.yml#L51)
  * Go from 26GB to 45GB free
  * Low hanging fruit is purging cached Docker images we don't use
  * Probably more to be gained
  * Still not enough to build `aswf-docker` images on a free runner, but should be helpful for some other projects
  * Larry: how does that change the size of the container download?
    * JF: it's just unrelated Docker images that are pre-cached and not used by us

* Canary Project: exercising all our dependencies
  * Inspired by [OTIO Toucan](https://github.com/OpenTimelineIO/toucan)
  * Does it "do" anything, or more like a test suite?
    * Larry: it doesn't have to do anything more than the requirements of linking against all the projects, prove that you can get that far.
    * More ambitious would be to show how projects can interact together that are not covered by just linking.
    * Stephen: whether by API or otherwise, build up a "scene", uses OIIO, OCIO, renders an image. If that image comes out the "right way" would be whether it worked or not. Image coming out would be the ultimate integration test.
    * Larry: that's already pretty high bar.
    * Stephen: could want to do more of course, but that might belong in individual project test suite.
    * Larry: phase 1: build everything in same container. Phase 2: can you make test app that links everything together. Phase 3: can you make an app that integrates them minimally. Phase 4: testing could be added in a project specific way. Let it grow organically. But don't want this to become so big to use up all your minutes in a CI run. Important component is the "bleeding edge test", it's not enough to just take the latest cached builds of everything and make sure they link together. Want to build them all from Top Of Tree today, and make sure you know ahead of time if you are affected by one of the projects.
    * Stephen: explicitly didn't want to have a full ray tracer!
    * JF: integration between USD and MaterialX seems to break easily.
    * JF: build from scratch or start with something existing?
    * Gary: was excited by Toucan from OpenFX perspective, but its 2D only. Not sure how you would glue this with 3D. You will need some 3D "stuff" for USD, MaterialX, OSL, it's going to be complicated.
    * JF: is there a toy renderer we could graft into Toucan? Larry: OSL has a toy renderer but doesn't connect to USD.
    * Stephen has a "USD Render". Gary: that could exercise 3D part, generate images, then could create OTIO timeline and process with Toucan, get OCIO in that part of the pipeline. You'd get pretty good coverage, would be a pipeline rather than a single process.
    * Larry: that could be fine, if the relationship between components in the real world are stages in a pipeline, we want to make sure they can coexist. We don't necessarily have to cram everything together if it doesn't exist in the real world.
    * Gary: if we cover 80% of the test cases, if someone wants to create one giant process... Larry: somewhere in there is a superbuild recipe, lots of people would find that useful on its own. Toucan has to a certain degree, but even those build scripts are customized to its use, they disable some library components, compile static libs. But it's a good skeleton to start.
    * Stephen: by "superbuild", do you mean build everything from start of tree and link everything? Larry: yes, but by default could get latest tagged versions. Lots of people would love that.
    * Stephen: I think Conan comes with interesting utilities to use the Conan toolset to bake together a package with all the nested CMake modules. Maybe there's some existing automation there.
    * JF: building Toucan + USD View could be an interesting proof of concept.
  * How does it relate to `vfx-all` Docker image?
  * Catch namespace clashes, mutually incompatible third party dependencies.
    * Larry: projects could pick arbitrarily incompatible 3rd party libraries
  * JF: this would be a C++ project? Stephen: may want to test bindings as well. JF: Conan recipes typically have a test_package, some test both C++ and Python bindings.

* Boost replacement discussion
  * Which ASWF projects still require it?
  * OIIO 3.0 no longer needs it
  * Imath Python bindings still use Boost.Python, wants to transition to pybind11 / nanobind
    * Larry: thorn in our side, needs work, have beginning of a Pybind11 replacement, but needs to be completed
  * OCIO no longer uses (or allows) it
  * JF: is there a lot of Boost usage in Facility software? Stephen: Boost for a long time was people's C++ "next next", C++ has a standard has caught up to a lot of what Boost offered, there's a bit less of reliance on bleeding edge, people value the standardization rather than the bleeding edge. Now that C++ standard has caught up, less compelling reason to use it. But it's still there in projects. Larry: people got sucked into using Boost before C++ 11 / 17, there are a few things that aren't in the standard yet, but worth moving away from it. In theory the threshold to get rid of it could be low. But don't know if internal software critically depends on it. Maybe not strictly necessary anymore, but we have lots of packages that don't necessarily have an internal owner, but they still work and are still useful. Removing the dependency would require allocating resources.
  * Ibrahim: we still use Boost a lot in our code base. Larry: mostly for legacy reasons, or things you still need? Ibrahim: mostly legacy. OpenVDB may still need it, they were using Boost for Python bindings? Larry: they switched all the way to Nanobind, first ASWF project to go to Nanobind. Pybind11 and Nanobind aren't compatible with each other, also Nanobind has a Python minimum of 3.8, so anyone depending on 3.7 would be a problem. Wenzel Jakob (author of both) really recommends Nanobind. We kind of all want to switch at once, but need to be done with Python 3.7, but then again OpenVDB already "threw the switch".
  * Larry: Python 3.7 is the minimum in a lot of packages. Stephen: upgrade from 3.7 to 3.8 is easier. Larry: if you need your library to run in address space of gcc with 3.7 embedded in it, gets complicated. If you are just running Python from the command line, that's easy. Some version of Maya has Python 3.7 embedded in it.
  * JF: OpenVDB said they needed Nanobind since it was compatible with a GPU memory allocator. Larry: you may be able to mix and match as long as you have packages that don't share data types. For Imath, the problem is that Alembic is that they use Imath types in its public API. So they both need to switch at the same time, not sure how many other instances there are.

* From Boost discussion: should we have a position on Python bindings generation (pybind11 vs nanobind)?
  * See above

* From Boost discussion: is it time to think more holistically about dependency management / version support?
  * Topic for next year?

* [OpenFX produces sigstore-signed releases](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/openfx)
  * How do we help all ASWF projects to do the same?
  * Gary: initially leveraged work from OpenEXR, had a separate release signing step, but ended up doing it in the core build
  * Interfacing with sigstore was all gathered from OpenEXR
  * Larry: do you need an account? Gary: no, didn't have to create a sigstore account. But will need an account to GPG sign your tags.
  * Larry: did the GPG signing of tags, that seemed to work. Next I want to do the artifact signing. Gary: now you can look at OpenFX as an example.
  * Gary: wouldn't have done it otherwise. Larry: don't know how Cary got it all figured out!
  * Larry: Cary created issues across projects pointing to it. Gary: didn't get one for OpenFX, maybe he knew I was in process.
  * Gary: issue it brings up is "how do you make a release", everyone does it differently. Sometime you tag it, upload it, release is created automatically by a script. Some are created on GitHub. There's not one standard way, not a standard way to produce on GitHub. I may do it a different way. Something we could learn from each other.
  * Andrew: [GitHub Attestation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-for-github-actions/using-artifact-attestations/using-artifact-attestations-to-establish-provenance-for-builds) use sigstore under the cover. Had an engineer switch from using sigstore to using this in half and hour. Covers pretty much anything.
  * Andrew: wasn't available until June as a beta, made more available not too long ago.

## Follow Ups

* Custom images for larger GHA runners
  * Any updates?
  * [GHA Custom Images Alpha Documentation](./Custom_Images_Alpha_Documentation.pdf)
* For pay runner budget

## Tools and Links

* Diff tools from Hacker News:
  * [delta: A syntax-highlighting pager for git, diff, grep, and blame output](https://github.com/dandavison/delta)
  * [Mergiraf: A syntax-aware git merge driver for a growing collection of programming languages and file formats](https://mergiraf.org)
  * [SemanticDiff helps you review code diffs in VS Code and GitHub faster. It hides irrelevant changes, detects moved code, and understands refactorings](https://semanticdiff.com)
  * [difftastic: a structural diff that understands syntax](https://github.com/Wilfred/difftastic)
* [Hardening Clang 18's libc++](https://libcxx.llvm.org/Hardening.html)
* [LWN.net: Progress on toolchain security features](https://lwn.net/SubscriberLink/996344/509ee5d2e32aadbc/)
* [Digital Attestations in PyPI](https://blog.pypi.org/posts/2024-11-14-pypi-now-supports-digital-attestations/)
  * [Visualization of top PyPI packages providing attestations](https://trailofbits.github.io/are-we-pep740-yet/)
* [GitHub Actions roadmap pruning](https://github.com/github/roadmap/discussions/1014)
* [GitHub Actions YAML Cheat Sheet](https://github.github.com/actions-cheat-sheet/actions-cheat-sheet.html)
