---
parent: Meetings
title: 2021-09-15
---
# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   15 September 2021

[https://zoom.us/j/757849640?pwd=QzE1K2hrL2FHSFhKK3h5Z3BWTFJsZz09](https://zoom.us/j/757849640?pwd=QzE1K2hrL2FHSFhKK3h5Z3BWTFJsZz09)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset (VES Technology Committee)
* Aloys Baillet (NVIDIA / aswf-docker)
* Larry Gritz (Sony Imageworks)
* Sergio Rojas (Arena World)
* Andrew Grimberg (LF RelEng)
* David Aguilar (Disney Animation)
* Patrick Hodoul (OCIO / Autodesk)
* Ryan Botriell (spk / ILM)
* Sean Looper (AWS)
* Trevor Thomson (Intel)
* JT Nelson (Pasadena Open Source)

## Apologies

## New items

* CI WG standalone from TAC

    * Review [proposed repo](https://github.com/jfpanisset/wg-ci)

        * Who wants commit rights?

        * Based on [ASWF template wg repo](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-sample-wg)

        * CI WG meeting notes copied from tac repo

        * [LF releng ticket to transfer to AcademySoftwareFoundation GitHub organization](https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/theme/portal/2/IT-22888)

        * Are we OK with Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International license for non-code content?

            * Should be the correct license from the base template repo

            * No objections for now

        * Code of conduct from LF

            * No objections

        * Do we want DCO check for PRs?

            * Should it be in? Andrew: we want the DCO turned on, from point of view of LF releng, in general it's better to  have this than not. There are LF repos that don't have it, but they are generally covered by CLAs. Larry: most of the ASWF projects have CLAs. Andrew: DCO is a good thing to have, especially if you don't have CLA in place. Projects that release eng is working with, only repos without DCOs are the Landscape ones. LF at some point tried to make blanket repo, but there was pushback from Landscape repository.

            * Looks like we are in favor, helps with provenance of code.

            * Larry: yes for DCO, no for CLA.

            * Will implement DCO check when part of ASWF organization.

            * Larry: unlikely to have IP fights over contributions to this repo, so DCO should be enough.

        * Do we want Netlify presentation of content as per the [TAC repo web presentation](https://tac.aswf.io/)

            * Ryan: "nice to have"

            * Need a CNAME under aswf.io, LF releng can do that

            * All Jekyll based themes, not hard but requires a bit of setup. "No reason not to do it".

        * Do we want to adopt [automated GH Issues-based agenda generation](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-sample-wg/blob/master/INSTRUCTIONS.md)

            * Probably no

        * Do we need a mailing list separate from [tac@lists.aswf.io](mailto:tac@lists.aswf.io)?

            * Ryan: Also have GitHub issues for feedback, so a more canonical way to communicate with external parties

            * Larry: surprising that GitHub doesn't have mailing lists. Issue tracker is basically a mailing list? Larry: weird when issues are used for communications. Like to use Issues for tracking actual issues that need to be used. There's also the new Discussions feature in GitHub. Ryan: relationship with Issues is not great yet.

            * Larry: can always set up mailing list later, see if Slack is good enough for now.

* spk - spfs update (Ryan)

    * Initially gathered a lot of good information and feedback, other studios checking it out. Have a good list of things that would like to see fixed. List is pretty long, some of these are bigger features, so working on paring it down.

    * Working on converting the rest of the code base to Rust, some of it is still in Python, ongoing work.

    * Larry: SPI has been quite busy, continuing to work on it. 2 people hired for DevOps related tasks, will have more hands on development in coming weeks. Have been working hard at converting internal systems to spk / spfs, now the favored in house packaging system. Converting all SPI packages to it, and teaching developers, and funneling feedback back into open source project. Getting a lot of good learnings using it "for real". Is it "in production"? Staging all the next releases to be distributed that way, all the developers are developing in it, and then pushing out to "actual" production.

    * Ryan: don't have a real sense of a timeline yet, will be revisited once prioritization exercise is done.

    * Also getting feedback from other studios, not sure if there's a commitment to actually use. One other studio intends to use it in one way or another, but not in production yet. And a couple of additional interested parties. Larry: several studios attend the weekly meetings, even sending PRs, but no explicit commitment yet.

    * Any overlap with Rust WG? A couple of people from the Rust WG have started attending meetings, Ryan's talk at Open Source Days may have piqued interest, they were already working for studios that were involved in the effort. Ryan: CI is still a bit hodge podge for now, somewhat of a hybrid between what was at SPI but, will be revamped once things go more public.

    * Larry: not yet in a state to easily adopted. Ryan: producing CentOS 7 RPMs that are reasonable "plug and play".

    * Ryan: some investigation work on Windows support, what it would take, looking at WinFSP, similar to FUSE but Windows specific. So could emulate the way it works in Linux on Windows. Hopefully that can lead to a working implementation.

* VFX Platform 2022 aswf-docker update (Aloys)

    * Only remaining item to do is OpenVDB 9 when that is released, as soon as it is released, will update the containers, everything else is done with the finalized spec for VFX Platform 2022.

    * Release images, with quick feedback from Larry and Patrick, noticed a few issues with some missing transitive libraries. Added OpenVDB to OSL, but forgot partio since we don't really use a package management system in ASWF Docker.

    * Issue with "transitive dependencies" for OCIO, OSL containers? The Conan-based approach should fix that, but that's a long process to get everything compiling correctly. Still have a branch on the side where building some packages with Conan (not spfs yet, since Conan supports Windows / macOS, not clear how to use /usr/local/ as the target with spfs, may be a non issues, was discussed with Ryan, in theory could build in spfs and export to a different file location, unclear if that's a good idea). Still happy to try spfs, especially if there are already a few recipes ready to go. Conan doesn't need to specify the version number in the package, when you build Qt 5.12, the version comes from command line argument, and can add if/else in the file to support multiple versions. Since maintaining 3 years of Reference Platform, that makes things a bit easier.

    * Ryan: makes senses for now, until spk is a bit more mature, it's probably not quite ready for this use case. Aloys: hoping to keep this hidden, end result docker images should look the same, everything in /usr/local, don't need to know how the software was built, it ends up in the same place. If you want to do on-the-fly install of additional packages, easy to do with a "conan install" inside your CI scripts. So could have simpler CI images with just the base packages and Conan configurations, and you can then quickly download binaries from Artifactory Conan repository. Still in experimentation phase, but will write a document outlining the planned solution. Keep the Docker images as similar as possible to what they are now, would like to be able to rebuild them all using Conan instead of current ad hoc build scripts. But maybe if that's too hard, could transition just the 2022 images. CI scripts can choose / opt in to install additional packages without having to ask to add packages to the CI images.

    * Will address the transitive dependency images, and should help to separate OCIO tools vs apps vs OIIO to help lessen impact of cyclic dependency. This is a side effort, hopefully in the next few months.

    * Patrick: you mentioned simpler images, and can install additional libraries / groups of libraries, so for instance OSL in OCIO. Are you sure it will be fast? In a build system, trying to avoid adding additional slowdowns. Aloys: hunch is that since everything will be pre-built, only limitation will be download time. The ci-vfxall image can take a few minutes to download at the beginning of a job. So in most cases may be able to download smaller images, for instance if you don't need clang / llvm, you would have the choice not to download that. So could add a Conan list of packages, and when you do "conan install", could install clang as part of your job. There is a bit of overhead for conan to "do its job". Don"t have to use it, can still use the full Docker images if you want. Could be interesting for matrix of test builds in OIIO.

    * Aloys: have all the ASWF docker packages in a personal JFrog repo, Qt is not quite working yet, almost ready to push them to official ASWF JFrog artifactory server. Fairly simple to use, and Conan client in Docker image shouldn't change / break existing workflows.

    * Licenses and signatures will have to be figured out, license files should be inside the Docker images. Each Conan package should be well maintained, and have the license embedded in it. So might be a better way to distribute software than a Docker image. Qt may be the thorniest.

* [CVE-2021-41077 Credentials Leak on Travis CI](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2021-41077)

    * For 1 week in September, any fork of a project set up to use Travis CI had access to all secrets in environment variables

    * Travis CI no longer in use in main branch of ASWF projects

    * What projects have used it in the past, do they still have active accounts?

    * Should we reach out to each project to verify and communicate back to TAC?

    * What about "ASWF-adjacent" projects?

    * Larry: OSL used to use it, but didn't use secrets.

    * Patrick: OCIO was also using it.

* [Automated ChangeLog Generation](https://github.com/orhun/git-cliff)

    * Is this valuable?

    * Are there ASWF projects already doing this?

    * Should we prototype it and encourage ASWF projects to follow a consistent ChangeLog format?

    * Aloys: tried a few tools, but never really found something that was good enough. There are a few ways to do this, but scraping commits was never the best way. One way that works that fairly well is to use GitHub PR templates, and then scraping those PR comments, would scrape those into automated release notes. Next best thing is to have a changelog which is a separate file. No consensus as to the best way to do that. Fairly rare that there's enough user facing info in commits to do this properly.

## Follow Ups

* Updates on LF releng code signing infrastructure (Andrew)

    * Do any ASWF projects currently provide signed tarball source releases?
