---
title: 2022-02-02
parent: Meetings
---
# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   02 February 2022

[https://zoom.us/j/757849640?pwd=QzE1K2hrL2FHSFhKK3h5Z3BWTFJsZz09](https://zoom.us/j/757849640?pwd=QzE1K2hrL2FHSFhKK3h5Z3BWTFJsZz09)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset (VES Technology Committee)
* Larry Gritz (Sony Imageworks)
* Brent Villalobos (Dreamworks)
* Andrew Grimberg (LF RelEng)
* Ryan Botriell (spk / ILM)
* Jeff Bradley (DreamWorks)
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz (Epic Games)
* Joanna Anthony
* Aloys Baillet (NVIDIA)
* Jean-Christophe Morin
* JT Nelson (Pasadena Open Source)

## Apologies

## New items

* Revised CI WG Mission Statement

    * [Current Statement](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/wg-ci#aswf-continuous-integration-working-group)

    * [Proposed Revision](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bTP3aRRIP-KNeq0ZomD18y89iZnntI8Nsg9Hav4APg8/edit)

    * Jeff: keep the CI benefits, not everyone is at the same level of understanding

    * JT: JC did some packaging work for OTIO on Python wheels / packaging, want to make sure the word is spread

    * To be presented to next TAC

* DCC Open Source Usage Spreadsheet from Jeff Bradley

    * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1xWExH2VMsXpb7XTDDKkQbl9Lpei9-zES-qml9lel0ME/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1xWExH2VMsXpb7XTDDKkQbl9Lpei9-zES-qml9lel0ME/edit?usp=sharing)

    * Jeff: Hasn't been updated in a year or two, this version of document is writable to everyone with the link. Doesn't include entire VFX Platform, very specific to the issues that were seen at our site. Needs a lot to be added. Starting to scale poorly, growing horizontally.

    * Jeff: being able to see different DCCs side by side is useful, being able to see differences. Helps to see how you can use two DCCs together at once, identify when you can't use them together in a simple way.

    * Needs VFX Platform 2022, latest DCC versions updated (volunteers?), more DCCs

    * Add links to DCC vendor pages, could they be screen scraped? Could vendors be encouraged to update.

    * Captures whether a library is namespaced, couldn't really get that from the disclosure documents.

    * Public vs "reverse engineered" data. "ldd / objdump / strings / ...".

    * macOS / Windows

    * OS level vs vendored libraries

    * Extend to non-ASWF / VFX platforms projects

    * How best to share this? Python 3 community spreadsheet worked out well, maybe plug this on 3D Pro? SSA Slack? Jeff: yes, happy to see it grow.

    * What would a version that can be consumed by CI builds look like (could be really useful for plugin vendors?)

* Rez accepted as incubation stage ASWF project

    * [https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/blob/main/meetings/2022-01-12.md](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/blob/main/meetings/2022-01-12.md)

    * How can CI WG help? Publish Rez-ified builds of ASWF libraries? Does that even make sense, or does every studio do things completely differently?

        * Right now you can share Rez packages, but the build artifacts are stored somewhere in a folder, but there's no way for Rez to consume an external package, except a Python package (it can convert a PyPI package to a REz package).

        * Rez packages are not easy to relocate, and when you relocate them, you transfer from one studio to another, need to have the same folder structure. Make sure you don't rely on system dependencies.

        * Rez slack channel common request is to have a place for common Rez recipes. There are a couple of open source repositories for Rez recipes. We can ask Allan to jump in and tell us what he needs. Will invite him ot next meeting.

        * Aloys: AL has a fairly wide collection of Rez recipe, they might be willing to contribute them. Many studios have those. Would be great to not have to reinvent the wheel.

        * Autopkg and its recipes is an example of a similar system

        * Compiled a list of different recipes not too long ago, will put it in Slack channel

        * Can you explain Rez recipes? A recipe is the way to build the package, "copy paste a file, put it in a folder, built it". Kind of like a template, can modify to your needs. Like setup.py for Python. File is executed by Rez, "rez build". Recipes are used to build C++ libraries, may have to copy a CMake file that will pull and build the dependencies for you (Rez is Cmake aware).

* Plugging the VFX Platform Survey Results

    * [https://drive.google.com/file/d/15b-4GMTSEE9tyqeQdBfy_LZnxQIdp38Y/view](https://drive.google.com/file/d/15b-4GMTSEE9tyqeQdBfy_LZnxQIdp38Y/view)

    * CentOS 7 is still prevalent but is EOL in 2024. Everyone should at least move to 7.9

    * Where to next?

    * Standardizing on a single desktop environment to make life easier for smaller studios / DCC vendors?

    * Anyone tried building aswf-docker based on RHEL8 / RHEL8-derived base container?

    * Lots of opportunities to get involved / contribute

* ASWF Docker Updates

    * No new updates from Aloys, have been busy with other efforts. Got somewhat stuck on the Windows VM that had to be setup manually, didn't want to set up a VM manually, wanted to use the same one as GitHub uses. JF: could we come up with a Packer template to try to reproduce the standard GitHub runner VM? Aloys: could be fine with a cloud VM. Eventually our jobs will run on Windows VMs maintained by GitHub, so would like to have the same software as is installed on the GitHub builders, but with faster turnaround time of a local build (compilers, Python, ...). Issues with linker inside Windows Docker containers. JC: MS has an open source repo with build receipt for their VMs [GitHub Actions Runners Virtual Environments](https://github.com/actions/virtual-environments). Some people have used this to build their own VMs. Aloys: there should be a way to get access to that VM configuration? JC: no easy way to get it due to licensing issues.

    * Moving from CentOS 7.8 / CUDA 11.1 to a newer base image?

        * Aloys: should try to move to an updated version, will check if there's anything newer. Can reach out to maintainer at NVIDIA.

        * Full CUDA environment is included, NVIDIA driver is accessible via NVIDIA docker runtime. Run with --gpu-all to us all available GPUs, but need to have NVIDIA runtime for Docker installed.

        * Build OpenSubDiv with CUDA support, may be the only project we build that requires building against CUDA, would have to manage the build matrix differently.

    * Aloys: there are a couple of big differences between Conan and Rez, would have used Rez if it provided what we needed. Artifactory integration would be really nice, AL has a way to do this, maybe we could use some of that? A specific pain point with Rez is that the package must contain the verion number, good for some things, bad for others (no need to specify version number in Conan recipe, so easier to maintain an array of versions). Can maintain multiple VFX Platform versions with a single Conan recipe, pass it from command line. But Rez has lots of advantages when you use it in a studio environment. Many Rez package files are Python, so they could get the versions from somewhere else, could be reasonably simple to fix in Rez, but still a lot of work. Wouldn't be able to reuse existing recipes.

    * Zlib 1.2.8 - 1.2.11 (how many DCC vendors ship their own Zlib vs use system provided 1.2.7 on CentOS 7.x?)

    * Any other important libraries that could be candidates for inclusion in containers?

        * Where do you draw the line? What about libxml? Can make a case as to what gets included and what doesn't. How do you decide?

        * Aloys: so far, wanted to build the minimal required, since zlib was already on the system and was already compatible, didn't want to replace it. Use the system library if possible. But if we have to use a newer version, we'll have to build our own.

        * Brent: would be useful if there were instruction for end users on how to override system libraries / add their own. Overriding the zlib version in the base image is not trivial, so instructions on how to add a new library would be useful. What files to modify. Needed to build Qt 5.15 against zlib 1.2.8, passed a "-no-zlib" flag which ended up working. But a documented way of overriding system libraries would be useful.

        * Aloys: depends on how "deep" your change is, changing zlib requires rebuilding everything since almost everything depends on it.

        * Brent: would be willing to eat the cost or rebuilding everything if there was a known way to do so.

        * Aloys: probably many ways to do this, CMakefiles can be tweaked in many ways. Different answer for every package.

    * More generally, should the ASWF Docker containers become an extension to the VFX Platform?

    * [AMD ROCm 4.5 PR](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-docker/pull/141) : does anyone have expertise to look at this?

## Tools

* Code Coverage Tools

    * OTIO using [codecov](https://about.codecov.io/), is this generally available to ASWF projects (organization-wide secret?).

    * What other tools are in use by our projects

## Follow Ups

* Updates on GHA custom / for pay instances

    * Should be available for beta testing (without GPU) at end of March

    * What about ARM machines? No ETA

    * Any flavor of Linux on non-GPU hardware (slow rollout). If Azure has ARM, should be available eventually. No update on M1, Azure having issues getting enough M1 systems.

* Updates on LF code signing infrastructure
