---
title: 2022-08-17
parent: Meetings
---
# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   17 August 2022 \

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset (VES Technology Committee)
* Jean-Christophe Morin
* Larry Gritz (Sony Imageworks)
* Esteban Papp, AWS, Creative Tools
* Andrew Grimberg, LF Release Engineering
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz, Epic games
* John Mertic, Linux Foundation
* Ryan Botriell, ILM
* Sergio Rojas, Different Dimensions
* Jeff Bradley, Dreamworks

## Apologies

*

## New items

* Feedback on Open Source Days?
    * Presentation slides: [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1NSarwaBAaxu49UAIHHGT9nd-L1qzZy4d/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=100489518776563013356&rtpof=true&sd=true](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1NSarwaBAaxu49UAIHHGT9nd-L1qzZy4d/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=100489518776563013356&rtpof=true&sd=true)
    * Videos not up yet
    * John: need to chop up OSD videos, add intros / outros, will be another week
    * Christina: it was good
* Review of CII badge requirements (John Mertic)
    * Review and annotate background document: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oncI0hbkreAefeidUmbwB_Tl36UNFzI88SbVDe1oKOg/edit#heading=h.agfhwzg33dmj](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oncI0hbkreAefeidUmbwB_Tl36UNFzI88SbVDe1oKOg/edit#heading=h.agfhwzg33dmj)
    * What can wg-ci do to help projects meet requirements
    * Identify specific examples in current projects that new projects can use
    * Perhaps create a spreadsheet pointing to specific examples
    * Present back to TAC on feasibility of increased requirements for new projects
    * Restructure as a spreadsheet for the project leaders
    * Start with looking at Gold
        * Could put some of those in Sample Project
        * Prerequisites: silver level badge
        * Bus Factor of 2 or more: how do you define people?
        * 2 unassociated significant contributors
            * Larry: at least 2 people who know enough of the ins and outs to cover for each other?
            * John: yes and know, smaller projects may "divide and conquer", Intention here is that if someone walks away from a project, you are going to feel the hit, but it shouldn't be a catastrophe. Doesn't seem like any of our projects have this problem? Initially maybe OpenCue, but better now.
        * Copyright statement: ties into / related to SPDX requirement. Do we have a GHA for that? Andrew: not one specifically built, have something on the Jenkins side, have an application for that. Could probably have a GHA for that, might be something available from SPDX.
            * Should we have a merge time file? Larry: that's tricky for files types that don't allow it. Andrew: have to exclude JSON files for instance, as long as the file format supports commenting. But need a good ignore file. Larry: needs to be a good ignore file. Our project has a strong contradiction to that rule, have a lot of files part of the test suite, a file type that could have comments, but reference output can't be added to, otherwise it wouldn't match. Would wreck havoc to gate checkins on SPDX / Copyright header. John: a couple of compliance checkers maintained by TODO group, there may be tools. Larry: if you can flexibly ignore certain types or directories, that should be OK. Andrew: in Jenkins, it's written to accept a path and a template, do the files down this path match this template. There's a known set of file types that can't have comments and get ignored (JSON for instance). Also binary objects (image files for instance).
            * We could run on projects not in the ASWF org yet?
            * John: we do this when we do the license scan.
            * Andrew: had monthly meeting with GitHub, they have something on their roadmap called a "required workflow" at the org level, this kind of thing could be set up as a required workflow, as long as it was done sanely. Initial design doesn't have any parametrization, so that would probably not work. But it could eventually be a tool to enforce these workflows.
            * [GitHub - fsfe/reuse-tool: The tool for checking and helping with compliance with the REUSE recommendations](https://github.com/fsfe/reuse-tool)
        * Change Control
            * All projects using GitHub
            * Identify "good first issues": a good practice, fairly easy. JF: doesn't seem particularly onerous? Andrew: mostly a triaging of issues. Committers should be considering when triaging issues. JF: have a process for identifying those.
            * Project must require 2FA: we already have that turned on at Org level.
            * 2FA should use crypto mechanisms: can't enforce that since GitHub supports SMS, and you can't exclude SMS at org level. If you enable 2FA at an org level, it will boot org members who don't have 2FA enabled. GitLab is a bit less user hostile, you can have a grace period before someone gets auto booted. Currently not looking at using LF SSO for GitHub. Listed as a "Should", can't enforce it.
        * Quality
            * Coding standards
                * Must document code review. Open3D has really good code review standards. John: a good process to have, how to do code reviews. No enforcement of SLA, just need to write it down. Provide links to a few different standards. A lot are not very complicated, can be mechanical (auto linters). RelEng team has some best practices documentation related to code review, have several links related to that. [https://docs.releng.linuxfoundation.org/en/latest/best-practices.html](https://docs.releng.linuxfoundation.org/en/latest/best-practices.html) Recommend a few tools as well, in particular pre-commit, used heavily by RelEng projects. Also lots of recommendations around commit messages.
                * Have someone else than the author review 50% of changes. Andrew: can be mechanically enforced, branch protection disables self approval, but it can be disabled for specific branches. Larry: like this requirement, 50% is fine, branch protection is all or nothing. Some of the things you push to the repo, sometimes have to fix a documentation typo, no way to separate code vs administrative. Also release branches, when it's time to backport fixes to minor releases, they'll do that as a separate PR, don't like that since I want to cherry pick the fix and push, instead of making a new PR. Want someone reading history to see the original PR. But this rule is easily achievable at 50%, although 100% of new code changes is reasonable. John: when cherry picking fixes, it's already been reviewed somewhere else. Larry: yes, this is great, only issue is blanket branch protection.
        * Working build project
            * Reproducible builds: concern of this came through. Andrew: this is very complicated due to the build environment not being static in a SaaS environment since we don't control the build instances. We can't say we have reproducible builds since GitHub updates the build environment. Github is looking at how to fix that. Ryan: if I can build it in a container is that enough? Andrew: no, the requirement is bit-for-bit result. There's a specific definition of "reproducible build". Ryan: doesn't mean it has to be done in a separate machine. Andrew: if you don't know exactly what's in the build environment... Larry: this doesn't say that we have to be able to achieve this in our CI, but if someone builds identical in their own environment, they will get the same result. Can't be all the CI builds, some projects have "top of tree" builds. So it has to be possible if you "hold everything constant". John: the idea is more about being able to reproduce the build environment. JF: could we split the requirement between a MUST reproducible build environment and a SHOULD reproducible build. Ryan: seems the real requirement is that projects provide information about build environment when they release artifacts so that others can reproduce the build environment. Larry: also lots of projects don't release build artifacts. Ryan: I want to be able to check builds it creates for malicious actors. JC: OTIO publishes binaries via PyPI. Andrew: comment about providing the info about how to reproduce the build environment is probably accurate for the intent behind this, most of these builds are happening inside ASWF containers (only on Windows / macOS though), we are able to do this provided that there are not timestamps that are variable during the builds. JC: another aspect is testing that your builds are reproducible within your CI, you needs checks in place. Andrew: run the job twice and compare checksums. JC: the reproducible builds project has tools for that, will inject stuff in the environment to try to disturb the build and see if reproducibility is an issue. John: all of that would be part of build environment toolset definition. Rationale is to make sure that someone can reproduce a build and that nothing malicious got injected. Bring feedback to the team to get further clarify.
            * Esteban: We found in a project that trying to get the same binary bit-for-bit was extremely hard. Optimization flags, different paths to files, versions of compiler, system libraries, dependencies, etc. We even found that some compilers require some special flags to reduce binary variance (e.g. for MSVC /brepro)
            * JC: [https://salsa.debian.org/reproducible-builds/reprotest](https://salsa.debian.org/reproducible-builds/reprotest) is the tool I was talking about that can be used to help catch reproducible build issues and [https://diffoscope.org/](https://diffoscope.org/) can be used to see if a build is really reproducible or not (by comparing artifacts).
        * Test suite
            * Automated test suite appropriate to the project
            * Must have 90% statement coverage if there is a tool that covers that. Larry: just started looking at SonarCloud in my projects, one of the things it does is check code coverage, it wants 80%, and that's already hard. 90% is really difficult. John: 90% statement coverage vs 80% branch coverage? Andrew: only if there's a FLOSS tool. Larry: that's what gcov does. Anyone who is doing SonarCloud is already using gcov. I looked at OCIO and OpenEXR for their SonarCloud configuration. I can hit 60% pretty easily, some places it has pointed out areas where test coverage doesn't cover what you want. CI job has many elements in the matrix, may not expect to execute all code paths for a specific CI build matrix element, no one test exercises the whole test suite. Could easily have a case where no branch is expected to have 80%. JC: also Windows vs Linux coverage, so how you device how to merge all the coverage results (maybe gcov does that). You have to enable coverage for all your builds. Ryan: if you are in a large complex project, it can be difficult to get a final number of coverage. A final number could be wrong, hard to say with confidence. Larry: many cases where we have fallback code when a dependency is not available or not new enough, on some tests that will get run or not. Can exclude entire files from coverage analysis, but nut granular enough. JF: also GPU vs CPU code paths. Larry: running full set of tests is not cheap. Larry if the requirement was that every project had to do coverage, that would be fine (it's in the Silver level), but achieving specific coverage level is very difficult. Somewhere in your code, you have some error handling which will be for a hardware failure you can't experience on your CI, can never get 100%, and every hard to get 80% or 90%. John: would be interesting to see where our projects are right now. There may be some low hanging fruit, but others might not be worth it. Larry: useful for every project to run the coverage and see where they stand, and see where it's worth putting the effort.
    * This is as far as we got on this call, did not get to Security and Analysis sections, to be picked up on Slack and/or next call.
* A plug for the VFX Linux Distribution Recommendation Report: [https://drive.google.com/file/d/12k-YZVHuxJs0LVKH_l6l9nf_qcYLfaLJ/view](https://drive.google.com/file/d/12k-YZVHuxJs0LVKH_l6l9nf_qcYLfaLJ/view)
    * Can't stick with CentOS 7 (EOL in Apr 2024)
    * Vendors should build on RHEL 8.x or binary rebuild (Rocky / Alma)
    * Vendors should support RHEL / Rocky / Alma 9.x (8.x will already be in maintenance mode next year)
* ASWF Docker updates (Aloys)
    * CY2023, RHEL / derivatives 8.x vs 9.x
    * Docker buildx / Moby BuiltKit\? [https://docs.docker.com/build/buildx/](https://docs.docker.com/build/buildx/) [https://github.com/moby/buildkit](https://github.com/moby/buildkit)
* Static Analysis Tools
    * Missing projects added to ASWF SonarCloud organization (need to remember to do this when a new project moves to ASWF GH org): [https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/academysoftwarefoundation/projects](https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/academysoftwarefoundation/projects)
    * MaterialX using free for open source license of PVS-Studio
        * Can we extend this to other projects?
    * MaterialX also using cppcheck
        * Other projects?
* GHA Dashboard and analytics, any interest?
    * [Data source for LFX Dash](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/insights/supported-data-sources#coming-soon) (visibility into LFX roadmap?)
    * [GitHub - chriskinsman/github-action-dashboard: A dashboard to keep track of the status of your GitHub Actions](https://github.com/chriskinsman/github-action-dashboard): where to host small servers?
    * SaaS solution: [Meercode](https://meercode.io/)
* Bonus topic: should we try to do anything about libpng?
    * Settle on a viable, better maintained fork (is there such a thing?)
    * Encourage ASWF projects to move to a different implementation (any ASWF projects use libpng directly?)
    * Add native libpng support to OIIO

## Follow Ups

* AWS Credits for CodeBuild
* [https://www.sigstore.dev/](https://www.sigstore.dev/) : is this the new LF code signing platform? (Andrew)
* Updates on GHA custom / for pay instances (Andrew)

## Tools

* Open source toolchain for signing and notarizing on macOS: [https://gregoryszorc.com/blog/2022/08/08/achieving-a-completely-open-source-implementation-of-apple-code-signing-and-notarization/](https://gregoryszorc.com/blog/2022/08/08/achieving-a-completely-open-source-implementation-of-apple-code-signing-and-notarization/)
* Landlock GNU make: using new pledge() system call to only expose explicit dependencies in Makefile:  [https://justine.lol/make/](https://justine.lol/make/)
