---
title: 2022-03-30
parent: Meetings
---
# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   30 March 2022

[https://zoom.us/j/757849640?pwd=QzE1K2hrL2FHSFhKK3h5Z3BWTFJsZz09](https://zoom.us/j/757849640?pwd=QzE1K2hrL2FHSFhKK3h5Z3BWTFJsZz09)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset (VES Technology Committee)
* Brent Villalobos (Dreamworks)
* Andrew Grimberg (LF RelEng)
* Ryan Botriell (spk / ILM)
* Aloys Baillet (NVIDIA)
* Jean-Christophe Morin (Signiant)
* Rob Fanner (Foundry)
* James Pedlingham (Foundry)
* Tom Saunders (FuseFX)

## Apologies

* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz (Epic Games)
* Larry Gritz (Sony Imageworks)

## New items

* Conan at Foundry (Rob Fanner et al)
    * Production proven Conan packages used for Foundry builds with namespacing, multi-platform support...
    * Discussion on general usefulness / contribution
    * Robert is a manager, James is the maintainer of the packages.
    * Started using Conan to help with VFX Reference Platform 2017, Nuke first, then Mari and Katana, and also in Modo.
    * Adds namespace support, USD / OCIO color spaces, symbol hiding, compiler variants.
    * Nuke hides Boost symbols through symbol hiding, Katana needs to provide Python bindings for USD.
    * Sample Conan recipes may not be used for production, so had to do their own.
    * Lots of README documentation for developer workflows, how to update packages, how to patch the recipes, the libraries.
    * Add SPDX license info
    * Introduced config.yml files for each recipe to indicate which variants are used for recipes, all the ways a package can be built (static/dynamic, debug/release...). Config.yml says which versions are used.
    * Rudimentary CI system, can see how builds progress through GitLib.
    * Helped deal with complexity to follow VFX Platform more quickly, help with Apple Silicon. Each product may have multiple versions of USD, up to 64 build variants, Conan helps support this.
    * Biggest win was to use expert knowledge and encoding it in a scripted format. Has introduced more overhead for regular developers who know how to work with Conan caches (can get out of sync). Recipes help with upgrades.
    * Some gotchas, trying to put more guardrails around build system. There are gotchas, "can't get from here to there", for instance may know you don't need to rebuild libz, but Conan is stricter. Looking at ways to override some of these.
    * Trying to express known compatibilities in the compiler toolchain.
    * Had thought about publishing as open source, but who would use it? Industry likely uses Rez? Also interest in vcpkg. Also use the aswf-docker containers, helps with quick and easy getting started work, but production is Conan.
    * Because didn't open source, has grown some "proprietary warts" that would need to be cleaned out before cleaned out.
    * Also reluctant about support burden if releasing open source, would it be worth it? Would it provide value to the industry.
    * Keen for ASWF CI group to have a look, see if its usable. Would love to get feedback, and if there's any interest in open sourcing it. But will keep using it internally.
    * Aloys: would be great to have a look! Curious about the build chain, packages that depend on packages. Are you encoding these dependencies in the Conan files themselves. Or if rebuilding VFX Platform 2019 packages, can you rebuild the whole chain of builds in one go,  or is this a use case?
    * Robert: yes, have done this, want a big "rebuild everything" button, need larger build machines. May need to trim down number of variations. There's a smaller "rebuild" button for each library in turn. But still want a single "rebuild the whole tree" button. Could result in thousands of builds. So interested in doing this, but will need to trim.
    * Aloys: recently looked at Conan Index, most of their CI infrastructure is open, have you looked at it / taken inspiration from it? Or may have started before it was available? Robert: had a look at it around 4 months ago, Mark is part of a Conan "tribe" (their TSC equivalent). Our Conan scripts may be more extensive. Use the same mechanism with YAML files used in Conan Center, but the Python CI scripts are not building the whole dependency tree yet.
    * Aloys: how would you want to share this at first? Robert: we may need to do a bit more "dirty laundry" cleanup, put an Open Source license and share privately on GitHub. Use GitLab internally, but should be independent of the git framework. Other option is to share privately on GitHub without any cleanup, but may need to sign a Software Evaluation document. Not a scary agreement, but would need legal clearance from employers. May be a 1-2 month cycle to cleanup.
    * Current recipes folder has all of the open source repositories, but also has some proprietary things like FBX that require a signed agreement, but some others may not be fine at all, so those would have to be excluded. That should be reasonably quick. Other bits that could be longer are home grown patches to Qt, USD, some patches may be benign (exposing private symbols to use them), but that exposes more repositories that may need to be on GitHub. For instance may have added a CMakefile for Zlib. James: also help to make more portable, for instance don't bake in build paths in USD. A goal across Conan is to use cmake as much as possible. So make sure the patches are correct. No proprietary code being mixed into open source libraries (or very limited).
    * Aloys: maintain Windows/Linux/Mac? From USD to libz? That's pretty wide coverage.
    * Robert: also PyTorch. In general around 140 libraries, small to medium size ones like gRPC, larges ones like Qt, PyTorch. Would cover everything that's in aswf-docker
    * Aloys: Conan recipes in aswf-docker, only have around 15 or so. Linux only for now. Should be possible to port to Windows, but haven't tried yet. Qt will be painful likely. But would be quite nice to be able to see the work that's been done. But even better if it could be used.
    * Robert: for evaluation, would be great to be able to at least build, even if the full CI toolchain isn't there at first. On Windows, build Qt libraries one at a time, try to avoid the GPL only libraries to make sure they don't get linked in. Qt has started using GPL (not just LGPL code). New Wayland support is GPL, some network modules are GPL only.
    * Robert: there should be value in those scripts being maintained by the community, more brains looking at the same stuff. Alongside VCpkg, containers, Rez.
    * Aloys: from experience with Rez, and smaller experience with Conan, Conan may be a better fit for building a set of pre-built binaries that can be used to build open source packages. At the moment, can use Conan or build scripts to build the packages put inside ASWF Docker images, will try to use Conan for new stuff and get rid of the build scripts, but only working on Linux. Feels like Conan is a lot friendlier for vendors / people who build software. Rez is a lot more friendly if you use a lot libraries in a runtime environment since it will create runtime env using rez-env. Much easier for studios. Both have value.
    * Jean-Christophe: discussions on next steps for Rez, an artifact store from where Rez could download from, could reuse Conan artifacts, Rez could use them in the future. Robert: Conan has commands to grab from Artifactory, Conan doesn't come with anything like the deployment mechanics provided by Rez. For vendors, it all lives in a single installer, nothing like the Rez support for managing environments. James: have had this working to run parts of USD in their own environment, but Rez may do this in a nicer way.
    * Next steps: Robert, will need software evaluation agreement, will need a license for the Conan recipes, likely Apache 2.
    * What does lf-releng release their build tools and configuration scripts under? Andrew: using APL 2 for some things, and MIT for some other things (also Eclipse Public License). Mostly a matter of tools written needing to work within specific licensing frameworks of target projects. Avoided GPL3 and GPL2 due to the viral nature. LF RelEng makes sure to use a fairly permissive license. Only artifacts released are documentation on the tooling, the source code, and sometimes a PyPI, nothing else can be downloaded as an artifact.
    * Apache 2 license is one of the better licenses you want to use. Robert: prefer Apache longer text, makes the agreement between the entity who made the contribution and the end user, not the "hoster" of the contribution.
    * Andrew: Apache license has distinction between Implicit and Explicit patents.
    * Aloys: aswf-docker is mostly Apache2, but Conan recipes is MIT since cut-n-pasted a lot of code from the Conan Index. Added SPDX headers, will double check. Have SPDX headers for all the other files.
* Rez and ASWF CI (Allan Johns)
    * Ideas for a public Rez recipe repository
    * Docker Hub access for Rez during transition period (containers for Windows CI)
    * Jean-Christophe: not a lot of detail, but need somewhere to store package recipes. Not sure what plans Allan has, throwing ideas.
    * Andrew: if we were hosting our own Artifactory instance, we could have our own plugins, but we are using the SaaS offering, so only plugins from JFrog.
    * Could redirect to Artifactory to get pre-built packages, using it as more of a file hosting solution rather than a package manager. Ryan: can configure Artifactory to be an HTTP blob store if that's all you need. There are integration questions around what you are pushing. Robert: you need to be on paid Artifactory to have REST API. Not sure if our instances includes it.
    * JC: GitHub Packages also supports raw archives, so may be an option.
* Aswf-docker updates
    * Aloys: no new updates, busy month with GTC. Need to check how to get CentOS 7.9 in the containers.
    * JC: any progress on Windows environment setup? Aloys: tried the isolation tool that was posted, looks interesting, not sure it will be the solution.

## Tools

* [DockerSlim](https://github.com/docker-slim/docker-slim): automatically analyze application dependencies and strip out container to minimum size, doesn't support C++ but supports Python apps.
* [GitHub Actions Partial Reruns](https://github.blog/2022-03-16-save-time-partial-re-runs-github-actions/)
* [difftastic: language aware diff tool](https://github.com/Wilfred/difftastic)

## Follow Ups

* Updates on GHA custom / for pay instances
    * Last Update: should be available for beta testing (without GPU) at end of March.
    * Andrew: didn't get more information from GitHub at least update, so looks like it got pushed. Hopefully will hear about it soon. ASWF should be part of the beta for custom runners. Premium runners / custom sized instances, will be important for OpenVDB. Aloys: building Qt also!
    * Robert: did build profiling recently for gcc tools, got surprising results. Fast RAM, fast storage, but really it's the core count that matters, and 2-4x memory (in GB) to core count. Diminishing return after 32 cores. NVMe, fast RAM didn't make that much of a difference.
