---
title: 2022-01-05
parent: Meetings
---
# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   05 January 2022

[https://zoom.us/j/757849640?pwd=QzE1K2hrL2FHSFhKK3h5Z3BWTFJsZz09](https://zoom.us/j/757849640?pwd=QzE1K2hrL2FHSFhKK3h5Z3BWTFJsZz09)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset (VES Technology Committee)
* Larry Gritz (Sony Imageworks)
* Sergio Rojas (Arena World)
* Andrew Grimberg (LF RelEng)
* Ryan Botriell (spk / ILM)
* Jeff Bradley (DreamWorks)
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz (Epic Games)
* Sam Richards (WD Imagineering)

## Apologies

## New items

* Priorities for 2022

    * Are we done / time to wrap up, or should we continue? Report to TAC accordingly.

        * Larry: what scope creep is appropriate, we accomplished day 1 goals of setting up CI infrastructure, but there are a bunch of other related issues about builds, packaging, platform support... The broader ecosystem around projects, how we get them built. Those topics keep coming, and it's good to have a forum to discuss this. Something should exist on an ongoing basis, even if it doesn't need to meet on a frequent basis.

        * Jeff: agree, CI is a bit of a misnomer, but there's value in talking about how to solve the same problems of consuming and delivering the same software. We all seem to be targeting similar goals and technologies. Around build / deployment infrastructure.

    * Should we better define the scope of the WG?

        * Only CI infrastructure per se, or...

        * Tooling around revision control

        * Static Analysis / CVE handling

        * Release note generation

        * Packaging and signing

        * ...

        * Andrew: from perspective of LF RelEng, all of that falls under the purview of CI/CD, all of that tooling is in some way bound up in how you build the product. CI/CD is the generic term, continuing to call ourselves the "CI WG" may feel like a misnomer, since we are talking about things that are not just about "building", but they are part of "ASWF as a holistic platform".

        * Jeff: on the consumption side (with tools like Rez), there are aspects that aren't just build, but also delivery and consumption, containers, Rez. Don't draw too fine a line around a specific name.

        * Andrew: we could call ourselves the ASWF Tooling group, tooling related to the development process, or the "CI and Tooling WG". Larry: I agree.

        * JF: will propose revised mission statement and present to TAC

    * Documentation projects

        * Survey of ASWF project CI / tooling infrastructure

            * Christina: could be useful, but could become obsolete quickly as those documents tend to.

            * JF: a standard template document for each project to maintain?

            * Andrew: have some ideas about this, looks at OpenDaylight projects, they use ReadTheDocs for documentation, but they have a single repo for top level documentation, but individual platforms have their own documentation section, and from main repository, there are inter-Sphinx links to the other sections. So each project maintains their own documentation, with a top level document that brings it all together. JF to take a look. Andrew: can point to Jenkins jobs that do this and to the various repos. Every time a change is made, validate that all the links are still valid.

        * How to set up builds

        * Andrew: repos vs Confluence vs document site: historically, stuff related to code, it rots if it goes into a wiki, no way to structure a build / validation process. But if the documentation lives in repositories, when changes are proposed, validation processes can be put in place, can verify the validity of links so you don't have link rot. RelEng documentation has processes to force a specific writing style, "how to write in clear and concise way", does cause some friction.

    * More investment in sample project

        * Andrew: yes, there's value, Linux Foundation projects that have an archetype project are more likely to attract newer project, even a very basic sample can help, especially with greenfield projects. Home Assistant project has a sample project, and that was very helpful to get up and running (personal anecdote).

    * Better coordination with ASWF projects

        * Designated CI rep? Sits in on TSC meetings once a month? Watches Slack?

        * Larry: could be the other way around: communicate with projects, and maybe have the project designate a person to keep touch with the CI WG.

        * Christina: this is informally what's happening now.

        * Andrew: should we try to get a bit more formality to get inter-project representation at the tooling level.

        * Larry: usually we have a decent representation from projects, depending on meeting schedule. There shouldn't be any projects that don't have visibility into what we do.

        * Larry: every nth TAC meeting we should call attention to what we do (Slack channel). Especially when major new topics are coming up (say Mac M1 builds), that's a good time to point to "forward looking".

        * Andrew: guest speakers bring interest

        * Ryan: with all these efforts, not sure what our goals are, consistency amongst projects, aside from adding to their workload.

        * Larry: minority of people interested in tools find themselves as part of a small group at their company, so one of the purposes of this group has been to pull isolated people from various companies to have a forum to learn about what other people are doing, pool mental resources. So an important service we fulfill beyond just ASWF project needs.

        * Ryan: instead of presenting to the TAC what we plan to do, we can present what we've done, and request from projects what they may want from the CI WG.

        * Jeff: have encountered friction when integrating any piece of open source software in the studio, so good to know other people have been running into similar issues. Larry seems to be been able to improve the integrability of his projects based on feedback from the group. Could take some of integration pain points to specific project.

    * Shared infrastructure (new GH functionality to share GHA definitions)

        * Reusable Workflows and Composable Macros in GitHub are now available, can be used to reimplement what was done in Jenkins at LF.

        * Andrew: identifying commonality across projects is the biggest hurdle, or extremely similar workflows, and seeing what we can do to make them generic so they can be reused by everybody just by injecting variables. RelEng library of macros and templates has been the entirety of that work. Need someone with a broad view across all projects. ASWF is a bit different in that it's an umbrella project across a bunch of monorepos which are individual projects, whereas OpenDaylight is an umbrella project across multiple projects that report to the same TSC. So more ability to broad stroke across projects, since they were all doing things the same way, or at least attempted to. ASWF projects are doing things differently, they may not be doing the same kinds of jobs. Most other LF projects are Java based, have more commonality. Only reuse of ASWF builds are the containers.

    * Standards for all ASWF projects (VFX Platform ++ : CMake version for instance)

        * Andrew: SBOM stuff needs into some of this, LF Insight system supposed to start helping with that. Not sure how far ASWF onboarding projects has gone. Mandate to get more SBOM stuff out there in the projects. Makes it easier for other projects downstream to have a better idea of what's container in XYZ. Definitely not a YAML file, those documents are large and complex.

        * Jeff: have maintained a spreadsheet of all different applications, Maya versions and their dependencies, which is a superset of VFX Platform. TDs have a tough time knowing why things break when upgrading versions, can be difficult to put a finger on what's container in DCCs.

        * Larry: not clear where the overlap with VFX Platform, it gives you the outline, but not all the information you need. Would love the see the spreadsheet of what's used by applications, what have symbols exposed.

        * Larry: "we used OpenColorIO but used a custom namespace" is never specified by vendors.

        * Jeff: can share the non-private part of the spreadsheet with the group as a basis. Could include links to the vendor web pages.

    * Explore post CentOS 7 environments ("VFX Platform Next")

    * New build types:

        * macOS GPU (possible with Big Sur)

        * macOS Apple Silicon (share contributions from SideFX to build TBB from #vfx_reference_platform slack for instance)

        * Linux ARM

        * Larger build instances

        * Andrew: for-pay custom build instances are not released yet by GitHub (at December meeting), getting close, targeting this quarter. Meeting with GitHub in 2 weeks, so will have more info then.

    * Windows containers

    * Packaging

        * Containers

        * Conan

        * Vcpkg (recent discussion in OSL Slack)

            * Larry:Build recipe posted. OSL's CI is currently Linux only, struggling to get a proper Windows build on GitHub Actions, will want to look at this. OSL is plagued at most contributors being Linux centric, Windows lacks behind in terms of CI / build instructions / testing.

        * Rez

        * spk

* CI WG Leadership

## Tools

## Follow Ups

* Updates on GHA custom / for pay instances?

* Updates on LF code signing infrastructure

    * Andrew: GHA action now available, going through process of getting signing keys set up for ASWF, secrets will be available to all projects through environment variables. Based on Sigil project from Fedora for RPM signing, generate a private GPG signing key, and issue a certificate from signing system to a client. Bridge is there as a proxy to get clients to ask for artifact to be signed. Can be signed attached or detached (detached signatures are easier), only RPMs currently support attached signatures. Signature artifact is returned (an ASCII file). Then publish the public key for external parties to validate.

* Larger / specialized GHA build instances
