---
title: 2022-07-20
parent: Meetings
---
# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   20 July 2022

[https://zoom.us/j/757849640?pwd=QzE1K2hrL2FHSFhKK3h5Z3BWTFJsZz09](https://zoom.us/j/757849640?pwd=QzE1K2hrL2FHSFhKK3h5Z3BWTFJsZz09)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset (VES Technology Committee)
* Jean-Christophe Morin
* Larry Gritz (Sony Imageworks)
* Esteban Papp, AWS, Creative Tools

## Apologies

* Aloys Baillet, NVIDIA

## New items

* Delayed start due to Zoom issues, had to use Google Meet
* Open Source Days
    * 40 min shared with Rust WG, **Tuesday, August 9 at 10:00 AM - 10:40 AM, split to be something like 25-30 for CI, 10-15 for Rust**
    * Anyone will be on site? ASWF wants at least one presenter on site to handle Q&A, take over in case of technical issues.
        * Possibly no one so far
        * Rez may be in the same situation
        * So maybe no Q&A?
    * What do we want to cover?
        * ASWF Docker
        * Conan transition, Artifactory
        * JC: could support cases where you want to deviate a bit from VFX Platform, a different version of a specific library, get to pick and choose
        * Should we talk about CII badge certification line items related to CI? There may be a discussion in context of the TAC.
    * Who wants to present? How much formal content vs Q&A?
        * More formal than Q&A since no one site
        * 
    * Who wants to collaborate on presentation material?
        * JF to start slides, post link to Slack
* Update on for-pay CI resources
    * OpenVDB needs larger builders ($200-$300/month using AWS CodeBuild), docker project to build compilers, Qt
        * Larry: building llvm may be limited, in context of aswf-docker or OSL. We don't have OSL running in CI on Windows, none of the pre-built ones out there are quite what we need, and building from scratch would be too long. Not clear it would be possible to do a full compile on the free runners.
        * JC: did you look at Conan Central packages? There seems to be a lot of packages there, maybe there's the right version of LLVM? Larry: haven't investigated it yet. JC: impressed by number of variants, 12 variants of ffmpeg on Linux for instance. Larry: can you send a link? Chris was last looking at this, not sure if Conan was on his radar.
        * JF: do you have a link to desired build recipe for llvm? Larry: not on Windows. Will put Chris in contact with JF.
        * JC: [https://conan.io/center/llvm-core?tab=configuration](https://conan.io/center/llvm-core?tab=configuration) but only Linux binaries. Larry: this may be what we're looking for on Linux. JC: recipes are in a GitHub repo, so may be possible to adapt recipe for Windows. Could possibly be a good solution, maybe they are using GitHub Actions.
        * GitHub runners also have vcpkg, but not sure if llvm has the right build.
    * Anyone else? Apple Silicon Mac (AWS, MacStadium)?
        * Larry: would be handy, would love to be able to test on it for CI, both for ASWF projects and personal projects. Have had people ask, what's the deal with OSL on Apple Silicon. JC: OTIO had it running internally, have prepared the repo for it, but don't have a runner. But have gotten requests from users to get pre-compiled PyPI wheels, people want to be able to just install the pre-compiled Python wheels, otherwise you need the Xcode environment installed.
        * JF: no luck getting free Graviton instance from Oracle Cloud.
    * AWS CodeBuild still best option?
        * No one wants to manage builders. JC: hard to share projects. Don't want persistent state.
        * JC: don't want to deal with leaking credentials / secrets, managing systems.
    * Best way to get AWS credits?
        * Esteban: talked to Sean who reached out to someone else, but they are on leave. There's a meeting next week to try to address it. Taking a bit longer than usual, but should have some status next week. Need to identify justification for credits, Sean will work to figure it out.
* ASWF Docker updates
    * Windows: recent experiments with Windows 2022 container, takes 8 minutes to pull from (throttled) Docker Hub
        * JC: image size + throttling is a problem
        * Even going through GitHub package repository is still a problem
        * Esteban: have you looked at AWS ECR? Could be an option to work around throttling issues. Will send links. Can be used as a cache. [https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/announcing-pull-through-cache-repositories-for-amazon-elastic-container-registry/](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/announcing-pull-through-cache-repositories-for-amazon-elastic-container-registry/) [https://aws.amazon.com/ecr/](https://aws.amazon.com/ecr/) Free to publish to the public one, if not should be possible to arrange.
    * Can projects start pulling Conan artifacts directly from Artifactory repo, and if so, how do we share this knowledge?
        * Should we document this?
    * Aloys: some cleanup work on the python packaging, pending an official pypi account to share ownership of the aswfdocker pypi package
        * JC: not adding anything related to namespaces, not like npm for instance. The goal is to add a way for companies to manage different projects, and the roles people have in these projects. There is discussion to have a namespace later on, but not now.
* CII Gold Badge Requirements: how can we help
    * [Analysis of OpenSSF Badge requirements for ASWF projects](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oncI0hbkreAefeidUmbwB_Tl36UNFzI88SbVDe1oKOg/edit#heading=h.agfhwzg33dmj) : ask John for access if you don't already have it, good background info on requirements
    * MFA: can that be enforced across ASWF GitHub organization?
        * Does GitHub even let you have MFA? JC: when Rez as moved to ASWF organization, had to enable MFA for my account since it was required to have account have MFA enabled.
    * Good examples of code review standards in ASWF projects?
        * Anything in existing ASWF projects or open source projects? JC: haven't seen anything. Some projects do have a properly documented PR workflow, what the user and maintainer needs to do. TODO: find a good example. JC: have seen some repos that document the review process, what the maintainers have to do with a checklist, "did I review the dependencies".
        * Esteban: [O3DE explicitly documents its GitHub workflow](https://www.o3de.org/docs/contributing/to-code/git-workflow/#reviews-and-feedback-on-pull-requests), although not explicitly the review process
    * [Reproducible Builds](https://reproducible-builds.org/): how difficult, blocker to Gold in general?
        * Larry: Is it just in the context of producing artifacts? What about when using CI just for testing? JC: we ship binaries in the aswf docker projects. We want to make sure there are no known security issues, use the same timestamp. Larry: the docker command will just redownload stuff...
        * JF : tricky on macOS and Windows with GitHub runners
        * JC: easier in Golang
        * Esteban: What about management of 3rdparty/dependencies? I have observed a lot of projects that dont lock on versions, therefore you cannot go back and produce the same build. E.g. if v1 was produced from hash abcde, we should be able to go to such hash and produce a binary equivalent to v1 (note that I say equivalent and not the same because the compiler could produce a slightly different binary)
    * 90% test coverage: where are we generally at?
        * JC: for OTIO it's around the 70s-80s
    * Dynamic Analysis: OpenEXR is using oss-fuzz, any others? 
        * Painful at first but worth it in the end. Larry: was less painful since OpenEXR had its own fuzzer originally. May be more painful for others, a project might get a lot of reports initially. Project for in-studio use would control all the software that generated the inputs, didn't consider a lot of cases where the input files could be corrupted / malicious. Will be a painful slog at first.
        * Is MaterialX being pulled into macOS via USD? OpenEXR is. So we need to be careful about these things... Larry: it's going to be a painful slog, but there is merit to it. Suspect that the lest painful route to go before turning on oss-fuzz would be to do our own fuzzing, either as a CI job or manually to get the low hanging fruit at first. When oss-fuzzz is running continuously, you could be inundated by reports coming in faster than the resources you have to fix those. May want to prepare before turning on an automated system. The fuzzers will find every weird situation you haven't thought of before, will mutate inputs to exercise corner cases. Haven't fuzzed OSL yet, but the input shader will be parsed, will issue errors and messages. Will compile this to intermediate code, so the reader for the intermediate code isn't super careful about potentially corrupted files. But these are saved on disk... now there's a new class of potential attacks. How many apps / libraries just read a startup file that contains options, have you ever considered every way you can construct such a file that would result in buffer overruns. These things should all be hardened.
        * JC: are we considering using [CodeQL](https://codeql.github.com/)? It's a smart, generalized Linter, automated static analysis. CodeQL is designed for security purposes, so will look at patterns that create specific security issues.
        * Esteban: also just enable all the compiler warnings, lots you can find. Started [doing that in O3DE](https://www.o3de.org/docs/contributing/to-code/overview/), compiling across multiple compilers, different compilers find different issues.
* Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)
    * Any good tools / methodologies for CMake/C++ projects?
* GHA Dashboard and analytics, any interest?
    * [Data source for LFX Dash](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/insights/supported-data-sources#coming-soon) (visibility into LFX roadmap?)
    * [GitHub - chriskinsman/github-action-dashboard: A dashboard to keep track of the status of your GitHub Actions](https://github.com/chriskinsman/github-action-dashboard): where to host small servers?
    * SaaS solution: [Meercode](https://meercode.io/)
* Bonus topic: should we try to do anything about libpng?
    * Settle on a viable, better maintained fork (is there such a thing?)
    * Encourage ASWF projects to move to a different implementation (any ASWF projects use libpng directly?)
    * Add native libpng support to OIIO

## Tools

* [GitHub Code Search](https://cs.github.com/about)
* [Microsoft open sources its software bill of materials (SBOM) generation tool](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/engineering-at-microsoft/microsoft-open-sources-salus-software-bill-of-materials-sbom-generation-tool/)
* [Tart](https://github.com/cirruslabs/tart): scriptable VM management on macOS for CI pipelines
* [Allstar - GitHub App to set and enforce security policies](https://github.com/ossf/allstar/)

## Follow Ups

* Overlap with USD WG (every other week, alternates with TAC)
    * No update yet, unclear what's the solution
* Updates on GHA custom / for pay instances (Andrew)
