---
title: 2022-12-07
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   07 December 2022 \

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset (VES Technology Committee)
* Jean-Christophe Morin
* Larry Gritz (Sony Imageworks)
* Andrew Grimberg, LF Release Engineering
* Viven Iyer, Animal Logic
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz, ILM
* Adrian Paul
* John Mertic, LF

## Apologies

* Aloys Baillet, NVIDIA

## New items

* CI WG 2023 Leadership (JF)
    * Did we cover useful topics in 2022? What do you want to see more / less of in 2023?
    * Expression of interest for leading the WG in 2023?
    * JF happy to keep leading the effort, seems like a consensus
* Update on GitHub Actions for pay runners (Andrew)
    * OpenVDB reiterated how important that was to their latest release at their annual TAC presentation
    * Free early access over, are we starting to rack up real expenses?
        * After 7 days of paid for use we currently have $309 in expenses
        * Monthly limit hard limit set to $1500 (virtual credit card via Spendesk). Used for monthly credit cards, approval process via LF finance. Limit is at the GitHub and overall card level.
    * Do we need to present a budget request to TAC / Board?
        * Have provided estimates to John, including the transition from AWS Codespaces. Added fudge factor.
        * OCIO hasn't transitioned from Codebuild to GHA GPU, not available as GA yet, but we're still getting those free of charge. Did say they would update the image after request about library issues.
        * OSL builds using GHA GPU after updating the NVIDIA libraries. JC: a good example of what the group / channel is for, projects helping each other.
        * JF: do we need to present an official request? John: no, already incorporated in the budget being approved. Budget committee will get together every other month to review spend. This one is a passthrough spend (not a yearly spend chopped up in 12 months). If we are going higher, they might come back to use, if it's a lot lower, towards end of the year it might be reviewed at the end of the year. But for now this group doesn't need to directly worry about it unless a flag is raised. Andrew: there's a hard limit of $1500/month, also spending limit on GitHub side. We will hard stop CI if the billing limit is reached. Would need another credit card attached to it, or limit updated.
        * JF: projects should aim to do their big releases early in the month (or at least early in the billing cycle).
        * JF: want to work on a seamless fallback mechanism (same as build in branch). Andrew: brought up to GitHub team, this is a major requirement.
        * John: if we're getting close to the limit half way through the billing cycle, we can keep an eye on it. Andrew: GitHub will send alerts when you have used 70% of your allocation, same at 80%, 90%, 100%. John: goal is not to leave the project "high and dry". You want to keep a control so we aren't blindsided by a runaway job.
* Aswf-docker update
    * Aloys (Slack): halted in my progress with VFX-2022 aswf docker updates with clang 15 build failures, I might have to skip that one and try to resume the update work soon
    * Aloys (Slack): Request for volunteers to help with CY 2023
* CII Silver Badge Requirements review (John)
    * Link to document: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oncI0hbkreAefeidUmbwB_Tl36UNFzI88SbVDe1oKOg/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oncI0hbkreAefeidUmbwB_Tl36UNFzI88SbVDe1oKOg/edit?usp=sharing)
    * What should be our deliverables from this effort?
    * We last left off at Internationalization
    * Other
        * GitHub meets criteria for web site
        * If you have other third party build tools not in normal LF set of tools. Andrew: all secrets are in organization level secrets, unless someone has stuck it in their repo.
        * We have a 1Password vault available, any secrets should be added to the Vault, secure area for management.
        * JF: infrastructure provided to ASWF projects
    * Change Control
        * Previous versions: not sure how relevant? OpenCue is a systems oriented project where this would apply. JC: if a CVE can't be patched on an older version and have to break the API, that point is covered here. Explaining how to upgrade so it's easier for users.
        * John: what's the path for upgrading API version: Documentation more than automated.
        * Andrew: what's DFCT-1.2 ? That link is broken.
        * Larry: this is somewhat met by VFX Platform, "trying to support last 3 years". Seems like "we all do it".
    * Reporting
        * Bug-Reporting Progress
            * Use GitHub issue tracker
        * Vulnerability Report Progress
            * Give credit to report
            * Reporting progress: OpenEXR has it. JF: GitHub has added a mechanism, encourage projects to use this instead of ad-hoc mechanism. Andrew: seems to be turned on at the org level, trying to find setting. JF: there's also a CVE tracking mechanism in GitHub. Larry: the SECURITY.md document was made before some of the new GitHub reporting functionality.
            * Rez vulnerability reporting template using GitHub: [https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/security/advisories/new](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/security/advisories/new)
            * Andrew: looks like I need to get us into the beta for the private vulnerability reporting
    * Quality
        * Define coding style for the primary guideline.
        * Must enforce style with a FLOSS tool if available. MaterialX was "hung up" on this.
        * Larry: OSL has a brief coding style explanation, and use clang-format to flag formatting issues. JC: most projects seem to have it.
        * Larry: mostly needs the time to do it.
    * Working build system
        * Larry: you get this from CMake + GHA. JC: the user can override compiler / linker flags.
        * For the bit-for-bit requirement: we don't put out pre-built binaries, so that's less of a requirement. JC: it's half the problem, the hardest part is having a byte for byte binaries compiling on different machines can be difficult. But identical back to back builds on the same machine is the first step.
        * How does this differ from the gold level requirement? JC: starting point of Reproducible Build, Gold badge covers the harder part.
    * Installation System
        * Use of CMake should handle this? Larry: CMake doesn't have provision to uninstall. How do you interpret it? CMake can use CPack to create an installer, and the installer can uninstall. Andrew: make doesn't also handle this. JF: containers / conan does this for aswf-docker
        * JC: projects would have to provide an "uninstall" target, and a place to record files? Larry: if you want this ability, the steps are not to CMake all the way to install, use CPack to make an installer, then run the installer. So can be satisfied by documentation.
        * John: could be handled via documentation, or provide a custom uninstall script. Good to document what are all the files being installed.
        * Larry: project should turn on the install manifest file. JC: created automatically, goes into the build folder. Also make sure that when a project specifies an install prefix, no files go outside the prefix. Larry: if it always makes the a list of installed files, why not use it? JC: doesn't track files created by subprocesses. [https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/install.html#generated-installation-script](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/install.html#generated-installation-script)
        * John: must provide "a way" to do this, so not necessarily through build scripts? Could recommend using rez for instance. Not every single build path should be fully uninstallable.
        * How to set up dev environment quickly. JF: aswf-docker containers satisfy this requirement. Larry: there's usually a script to set up additional requirements in the container, other people can run it when not in CI.
    * Externally maintained components
        * List external dependencies: requirements.txt in Python. LFX Security will use this to parse dependencies.
        * Monitoring external dependencies: LFX Security can help with that. Larry: in context of a C++ project, this is less easy. For OSL, it has a bunch of dependencies, there's a text file that describes the dependencies, but it's not necessarily something that can be consumed by an automated process. Periodically checking dependencies are tricky, we typically don't nail down every dependency. We don't know the environments where our projects are installed / run, we have to support a wide range of versions.
        * John: how does SNYK know? JC: SNYK just crawls the folder you give it, looks at SPDX headers, it's a bit of a convoluted process. All these systems try to figure out "stuff" based on files and headers. JC: some projects generate SBOMs that can be used for this. There are file formats for machine readable SBOMs, SPDX has a format. We would need to agree on something, there's an API in GitHub to publish "custom dependencies", and can be tracked with dependabot. Larry: not looking for dependencies to be embedded / submodules, it will crawl our source code and deduce dependencies? Andrew: LFX using Snyk is only pointed at source code, only way to do this is by parsing the code and figuring out what you are pulling in.
        * JC: have to make sure you clone all the submodules, all dependencies must be available as files, give root of repo. So it has to be a submodule / folder. But we don't do that anymore, OCIO use to "vendor" its dependencies, now they no longer do. Larry: submodules make this work easily since you have to specify a specific version of the project you are using. The hard case is where we don't have git submodules, we just assuming that it's installed on the machine at build time. No code in the project that installs it. Was intrigued by the idea it would look at the #include directives, but it doesn't do that. Andrew: can look at what LFX Security is saying wrt Snyk. JC: LF Security doesn't work by default on C/C++ projects, have to run it as a GHA. [https://security.lfx.linuxfoundation.org](https://security.lfx.linuxfoundation.org)
        * JC: no C/C++ dependencies listed in LFX Security dashboard. Larry: if there's a way to provide hints... We need to review this later and figure it out.
        * Andrew: [https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/MaterialXGraphEditor/security/advisories](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/MaterialXGraphEditor/security/advisories) can someone go there and see if there is a 'New draft security advisory' button? JC: There is no button. You are admin right? I can see it in rez, but can’t on other projects (because I’m admin on the rez repo). Andrew: ok, the button we should actually be looking for is 'Report a vulnerability' so I'm not seeing that yet. I need to talk to GH apparently
        * John/JC: [https://docs.snyk.io/products/snyk-open-source/language-and-package-manager-support/snyk-for-c-c++](https://docs.snyk.io/products/snyk-open-source/language-and-package-manager-support/snyk-for-c-c++)
    * Identify and update external-maintained components: done via VFX Platform
    * Should be easy to update components with vulnerabilities. "Don't build your versions of external libraries". Larry: we mostly stay away from that, we get complaints from packagers if we do that.
    * Don't use deprecated APIs and versions.
    * Automated Test suite
        * Our CI runs test suite
        * Add regression tests for fixed bugs. Larry: yes, we try to do this, but not easy to compute if it's above or below 50%. But sounds reasonable. Larry: sometimes the files that reproduce a problem aren't public, or too large to add to a test suite. We do it whenever we can, but there are cases where it's not practical. John: "most of the time" sounds like 50%...
        * Statement coverage: 80%, the Gold badge is 90%. Larry: have been trying hard to get there on some project, 80% is a lot of work but achievable, currently at 80% on one project, 76% on another. It's a worthy task, and found some interesting bugs on the way to 80%.
        * Functionality testing: Larry: we're good at that. Should have a written policy.
        * Warning flags: use maximum warnings as practical.
    * Security
        * Secure development knowledge
        * If you have the base badge, you should be doing this
        * Don't think that any of the ASWF projects currently have cryptography components
        * Secure releases is trickier: signed releases with signing keys. We're not currently signing releases. Andrew: we have the ability, our projects have access to Sigil, a method for doing GPG signing of artifacts and git tags. Designed to work on networks. A client speaks to a server, the key never leaves the server. There's a GHA to interface with Sigil server, ASWF should have everything in place, then call a GHA to sign a release. Larry: the way we're going to need this eventually is to boil it down to easy to follow instructions. Andrew: if should just be a single line in GHA. A release-time only action. Larry: if one project does it, others can copy from it. Andrew: haven't investigated how to use sigstore to do this.
        * Checking inputs: OpenEXR uses Google Fuzz for that.
        * Hardening mechanisms: HTTP headers less applicable here.
        * Assurance case: what does a template of a file that does this look like? Larry: the "thread model" seems the same for all our projects, so maybe we can do this one. OpenCue may be a bit difference since it's a network service, also Rez, maybe OTIO with its plugin system. John: a documentation issue more than anything else. Larry: "describe the threat model" may scare people off. John: action item to find a template file.
    * Code analysis
        * Every project is using static / dynamic code analys. Larry: we should all be doing this.
    * And we are done. We will review action items. John: looking at a source of funding to do external review.
    * Everyone should have another pass, and in January we can go over anything that's missing. Larry: we've made action items.
    * There should be tools / API to fetch the CII information to produce a document. John: [https://github.com/coreinfrastructure/best-practices-badge/blob/main/doc/api.md](https://github.com/coreinfrastructure/best-practices-badge/blob/main/doc/api.md)
* How many projects are using the Conan packages instead of / on top of ASWF docker containers, and how can using those be made easier for ASWF projects? Does every project know they exist?
* Proposed "small" projects from Robin Rowe at last TAC meeting, is this something CI WG could adopt?
    * [Libunistd](https://github.com/robinrowe/libunistd) : an abstraction layer allowing the use of POSIX APIs when porting to Windows
    * [Cmaker](https://gitlab.com/robinrowe/cmaker) : a Cmake-based project template generator

## Follow Ups

*

## Tools and Links

*
