---
title: 2022-10-12
parent: Meetings
---
# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   12 October 2022

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset (VES Technology Committee)
* Jean-Christophe Morin
* Larry Gritz (Sony Imageworks)
* Andrew Grimberg, LF Release Engineering
* Ryan Botriell, ILM
* Tom Cowland, OpenAssetIO
* Jeff Bradley, Dreamworks
* Viven Lyer

## Apologies

* John Mertic, Linux Foundation

## New items

* Review of CII Silver badge requirements postponed to next meeting
* GitHub Actions early results and costs (Andrew)
    * How much do we spend per month?
    * Larry: tried it in last couple of days, it's much faster, but my use case is not as crucial. Tried an analysis workflow that's so expensive that I took it out of the loop of doing it on every PR and only doing it nightly, didn't want the review cycle to be delayed, since it was so much longer than every other job in the matrix. Using new runners, brings it in line with the other jobs. Doesn't have to be all or nothing, can just put specific, longer jobs on custom runners. But don't need to keep it if it's going to "break the bank". This was done on OSL.
    * Andrew: pulled a report last night, asked GitHub to give us a 90 day of GHA usage, entirety of time we had it for free, we may still be getting it for free? We're not showing accumulated costs yet. In theory we shouldn't be able to run it if we don't have billing set up. Last month (September), we only utilized $126 of time across all projects (really only OpenVDB) (only the custom runners). Usage summary for free minutes is that we haven't used even a fifth of our free minutes.
    * This month since we've opened up a bit more, we've spent $600, and we're not halfway through the month. Report says "who caused the action to run". The OSL analysis workflow took 31 minutes and cost $1, so OSL analysis isn't going to break the bank. Larry: that's because I hand pushed it? Andrew: only pushed it once. So 1 run cost $1.
    * Andrew: that's the only run I see for OSL. Larry: that doesn't seem to make sense, we spin up 12-20 runners on every PR and every night.
    * Spreadsheet shows detailed breakdown, per repository, and who caused the action to run. Larry: weird that there's only 1 entry for OSL.
    * JC: don't see OTIO builds either?
    * Andrew: breaks down based on UBUNTU 2 CORE, WINDOWS 2 CORE, MACOS 3 CORE. The multiplier says 'how much weight does this cost us out of our pool'. Linux systems have multiplier of 1x, so 1 minute costs 1 minute of free allocation, macOS is 10x, so 1 minute costs 10 free minutes. Total allocation is 50K minutes per month (equivalent of GitHub Enterprise allocation).
    * Price Per Unit ($) is the per minute cost if we were paying for it.
    * We won't pay for minutes on the standard runners, under our monthly allocation.
    * Andrew: Aloys Qt build cost $11 for 174 minutes on a 16 core system. Larry: this is an example that was almost impossible before large machine, and only needs to be done a few times. So it seems justifiable.
    * Andrew: most expensive so far is OpenVDB, 590 minutes on a Windows 8 core, $37. How does that work, even with the custom builders, the limit should be 6hrs / 360 minutes? -> it's core minutes, so 73 minutes real clock.
    * JC: documentation seems to say that "minutes" is wall clock. Andrew: but maybe the 6 hour maximum is only for the free builders?
    * Multiplier only affects the free systems and free minute pool.
    * We've spent $600 for the first 12 days of October, so we would be at roughly $2K/month for OpenVDB. How does that compare to AWS CodeBuild? DPEL has come up in last couple of months, $4000/month for all AWS services. Before DPEL, we were at around $1300.
        * Jira Instance
        * Amazon CodeBuild
        * Storage and Transit for DPEL
    * Andrew: GHA custom runners is less infrastructure than CodeBuild, setting up something that happens rarely in CodeBuild is significant.
    * Andrew: someone was asking how you setup how you can run on different kinds of systems, jobs that run on custom builders, but what if you fork? Apparently you can pass an array of "runs-on", so the GHA will use the first one it has access to.
    * Larry: so if the running account doesn't have access, it should fall through? Andrew: yes, haven't tested it, but can do a fallthrough. Larry: would this allow us to set a billing cap? Andrew: that's possible. The billing is set up so that we can have either an uncapped billing (bad!) or set a spending cap (likely what we want). So we can set a spending limit. Larry: but we want a fallback when we hit that, instead of all jobs starting to fail. Larry: will test that on my end, forcing a CI run from my own account, does it provoke a failure, fall through, or just sit in a queue. Will post to chat. Andrew: could significantly change how we write the jobs, based on number of available cores.
* OIIO IOProxy class moving into a separate project (Larry)
    * [@Tom Cowland](https://academysoftwarefdn.slack.com/team/U02GQ4TKZD4) wants to see if he can get some momentum behind his idea to cleave off OIIO's IOProxy class into a (tiny) project that can be shared among a bunch of projects. I wonder if this is just the first instance of a class of tiny infrastructure projects that should live within the CIWG as the logical home. I observe that generally CIWG is mostly not about CI per se these days but perhaps should mature into an "Infrastructure WG" that can be the home for a bunch of miscellaneous tooling and small code bits that are truly cross-project and don't make sense to live in any one major project, yet are too small to be a standalone project (and don't merit all the overhead of separate governance, meetings, TAC seat, etc.).
    * Larry: instigated by Tom, but I support it.
    * Tom: over 10 years, people have been telling Foundry that we have to assume that everything is a POSIX filesystem, for instance listing directories to finding frame ranges. Houdini Filesystem API is a great way to do this, they have a file handler, http handler. Can be extended to support any strategy you want.
    * Have been chatting with SideFX of possibility to open source their file system API, they highlighted that OIIO already has something called IOProxy which already does the same thing, already open sources, already in use. SideFX says they would like to see a few additional things in it, especially being able to provide a plugin so you can disconnect from application development cycle.
    * Tom: Reached out to Larry, he seemed favorable, why reinvent another way to do this. Feels like ASWF place would be the right place to do this. Where do we go next / how do we get interested parties, but feels like setting up a whole new project feels very heavy weight for something that's a small amount of work, so perhaps WG CI may be a good place for these types of projects. Looking for anyone interested in joining this conversation / process.
    * Larry: we might not have the right people for the development, want every project leader to look at this, decide if they already have something like this, or would they be able to make use of this. We can use the one from OIIO as a starting point, but it shouldn't live in a particular project. Tom wanted to get the people from those projects in the same room to figure out where do we go. But with regards to WG CI, does this feel like the right place for little projects? Too small to be their own project with all that overhead? CI WG hasn't been just about "how do we set up a CI", it's more about the "infrastructure" WG.
    * Ryan: how would you make larger technical decisions? Who would answer questions of how something could be done? This is different than imath since it could see more active development once it's spun out? Probably want some kind of pre-determined "elected leader", since that part of it doesn't necessarily fall to this group.
    * Larry: doesn't need to live under wg-ci, just under ASWF, be its own repo. JC: can just have a repo, have us as the "owner" of the repo, we can delegate to different maintainers. If a developer is overwhelmed, we can find someone else to manage the repo.
    * Tom: DCO is easy, other projects don't seem bothered by lack of CLA. How essential is the CLA? Larry: every project can make its own decision, some CLAs got inherited from the original project that was donated. But there's no ASWF rule that says we have to do it, we can have a project without a CLA, we're free to do that. Tom: was trying to get rid of it for OpenAssetIO, DCO seems pretty convenient? Larry: CLA is to protect developers from their employers so they can't change their mind, if an employer thinks they have permission to contribute. Up for interpretation as to whether it's necessary or sufficient. Just having a DCO is a bit scary since most employees don't realize that everything they do belongs to their employer, just signing the DCO may create a sense that they are able to contribute. Having the CLA means they have to get explicit permission / have blanket permission from the company. But it adds a burden / impediment from contributors who don't work in large companies. Tom: the EasyCLA infrastructure makes it a bit easier, does it have to be a specific project? Andrew: yes, have to be a specific project to use the EasyCLA, only for Linux Foundation Projects.
    * JC: OTIO has their own organization. Andrew: but still part of ASWF. One factor: does the ASWF have ownership over the project in GitHub?
    * Larry: for this particular instance, since the code comes from OIIO and not a ASWF project, not owned by a company, there isn't a legacy CLA. OIIO has a loosely enforced for large contributions, don't require it for small changes. IOProxy is hard to imagine that there would be any IP issues. When Imageworks turned OSL over to ASWF, it came with its own CLA. If the CLA is more trouble than it's worth, we can say no.
    * Tom: if we assume that when it's forked off, DCO + CLA, best practices, does the proposal that this home is a "notional home"?
    * Ryan: as long as we have a system that projects are well maintained, even if it's not relevant to week to week concerns, we need to have a system. Andrew: there's a cycle of projects defined in ASWF charter, talks about how they come in, how they live, and how they sunset. No ASWF project as gotten to the "abandonware" stage, but projects get there. In other LF foundations, they regularly deprecate projects that are no longer being maintained. We don't want CI WG to be a "dumping ground", but it's natural that if a project can sunset.
    * Ryan: are we creating a "sub TAC" for smaller projects, delegating to smaller projects? Larry: we have other projects that maintain smaller projects, OpenEXR / iMath for instance. Ryan: difference is OpenEXR folks are much more active in the code base. Larry: and they are tightly coupled. Larry: if we are taking are of more code, we may want to turn ourselves into a project.
    * Tom: we could host it under the OpenAssetIO, but didn't want to tie it so closely to OpenAssetIO, giving wrong impression about strong affiliation.
    * Larry: currently the implement is one header and part of a CPP file, could be header only. But it gets tested in context of OIIO, so would need separate testing facility.
* Spreadsheet that aims to capture all the important industry mutual software dependencies (Larry)
    * Inspired by a DM conversation between myself and [@Stephan Steinbach](https://academysoftwarefdn.slack.com/team/UMJEL8HPB), I've prototyped a big spreadsheet that aims to capture all the important industry mutual software dependencies. I've previewed to a few people quietly, and think it's ready to show more widely and drum up support for the project maintainers to actively keep it up to date. I also wonder if this is something I should turn over to the CIWG explicitly to maintain going forward, as I think it's closely aligned with this group's mission and might end up being one of our core living documents.
    * Want group members to look at the spreadsheet, give collaborator access. Happy to turn it over to anyone who would be better home. "The Big Spreadsheet that knows every industry dependency". Open source packages, DCCs. A place at a glance for dependencies, what versions are extinct, where are the overlaps. Larry: my projects have conservative requirements on CMake, but other projects require much newer version, so now I feel OK about raising the required version. A lot of our projects support weird ranges of things, don't have enough information at our fingertips. If we can see everything that forms the ecosystem, that could be really helpful. Shared with a few projects leaders, a few people I gave feedback to, supposed to be a living document, rows and columns, want people to add as necessary.
    * JF: how does it become machine consumable? Larry: this can be a prototype.
    * Larry: part of the requirement is because the VFX Platform is not sufficiently detailed. For instance, VFX Platform tells you the versions for each year, but doesn't say which years are out there, and what's expected to work alongside. And doesn't cover all the components in use.
    * Didn't want to send the link widely if the home is going to change.
    * The previously shared spreadsheet: [DCC Open Source Usage](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1xWExH2VMsXpb7XTDDKkQbl9Lpei9-zES-qml9lel0ME)
* Aswf-docker updates (Aloys)
    * PR / issue review?
* Static Analysis Tools
    * Missing projects added to ASWF SonarCloud organization (need to remember to do this when a new project moves to ASWF GH org): [https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/academysoftwarefoundation/projects](https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/academysoftwarefoundation/projects)
    * MaterialX using free for open source license of PVS-Studio
        * Can we extend this to other projects?
    * MaterialX also using cppcheck
        * Other projects?
* GHA Dashboard and analytics, any interest?
    * [Data source for LFX Dash](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/insights/supported-data-sources#coming-soon) (visibility into LFX roadmap?)
    * [GitHub - chriskinsman/github-action-dashboard: A dashboard to keep track of the status of your GitHub Actions](https://github.com/chriskinsman/github-action-dashboard): where to host small servers?
    * SaaS solution: [Meercode](https://meercode.io/)
* Bonus topic: should we try to do anything about libpng?
    * Settle on a viable, better maintained fork (is there such a thing?)
    * Encourage ASWF projects to move to a different implementation (any ASWF projects use libpng directly?)
    * Add native libpng support to OIIO

## Follow Ups

* [https://www.sigstore.dev/](https://www.sigstore.dev/) : is this the new LF code signing platform? (Andrew)

## Tools

* SonarLint: [SonarLint](https://www.sonarsource.com/products/sonarlint/)
* Local GitHub Actions: [act](https://github.com/nektos/act)
* GitHub Actions tips: [GitHub Actions Pitfalls](https://fusectore.dev/2022/09/25/github-actions-pitfalls.html)
