---
title: 2023-06-21
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   21 June 2023

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Jean-Christophe Morin, Rez
* Andrew Grimberg, LF Release Engineering
* Aloys Baillet, NVIDIA
* Kerby Geffrard, OpenRV
* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks
* Mike Rocherfort, Skydance Animation

## Apologies

* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz, ILM

## New items

* Foundry Conan Recipe contribution
    * Temporary home in WG repo: [https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/wg-ci/tree/main/foundry_conan_recipes](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/wg-ci/tree/main/foundry_conan_recipes)
    * 1156 files, 153 packages! Apache 2.0 licensed
    * Lots of interesting package recipes, including many ASWF projects
* Aswf-docker VFX Platform 2023 released
    * [https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-docker](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-docker)
        * Larry: works in OSL and OpenImageIO using 2023 containers. Technically referencing the `aswftesting` containers to get started earlier. No problems / worked out of the box, was pleasantly surprised! Typically get warnings from new compilers / minor incompatibilities. Outside the containers do a "bleeding edge / latest" build on the native Ubuntu builder, using latest dependencies (much newer than VFX Platform for instance). That hard work pays off, since it made the 2023 build work out of the box. JF: yes, that makes it worth it. Larry: I do one test that way, when PRs come through, if that test fails, I might let the merge through since sometimes the failures are spurious. Sometimes we have to adjust due to API changes, sometimes it's just a transient bug, if it fails after a few days, then I will try to adjust for it or report the bug to the project. So you take that build with a grain of salt. But it means we will have seen changes in a new VFX Platform version.
        * VFX 2023 contains a new CMake version, does that help? Larry: aswfdocker bakes in new tool versions, I want the packages to be able to build in the ecosystem of the year we are aiming at. We should still be able to build against Cmake for older versions. I'm still testing against 2019 containers, would like to retire these fairly soon, but can't do that until my own studio retires the DCC versions built against that version. VFX 2019 still had both gcc 6 and Python 2.7...
    * Spurious "broken link" badges for clang packages: should the 2023.0 link refer to clang 14.0 or 15.0 builds?
        * Larry: don't have a reason to prefer 14 over 15, OSL is not ready for clang 16, but 15 should be OK. But should check with OpenVDB.
        * Aloys: don't think anyone is tagging those images without the -clang part. We can chose, we select one, for instance clang15, or we don't. Or we update the tag in the README.md. 
        * JF: some external projects may just want ci-vfxall, so may want to point to clang15?
        * Larry: 15 may have been the latest active on January 1st.
        * JF: will ask releng to apply the tag.
        * Larry: this is my first set of Rocky 8 builds, don't know what else got updated, yet still had no issues
        * Mike: are ASWF projects all using both gcc  and clang for different runs? JF / Larry: only specific projects do so. Mike: would be interesting to see if more warnings / issues would come out of having both builds. Building with different tool chains can uncover different issues, making that recommended approach could help. Larry: wonder if it would be helpful to publish a reference workflow yaml file that's not for a real project that would demonstrate the test matrix for the last few years, with a clang variant, a debug variant, like most of the mature projects do. JC: would be possible to avoid duplication of the matrix, everyone has similar matrix, possible to have a shared action that would generate the matrix, and projects could consume that matrix. Larry: would be cool, does each project have something unique that would need to be specific? JC: action could have inputs so it can be tailored.
        * Kerby: projects building on macOS are likely using Xcode Clang. OpenRV is using MSVC on Windows, GCC on Linux.
        * Mike: internally at Skydance we use GitLab for CI, can reference another repo for YML files, wasn't sure if GitHub Workflows had the same.
        * Andrew: no direct corollary between GitLab and GitHub, suggestion to using an action would be the closest. Could be done as a simple 'composite action', or it could be a TypeScript action, but that would be more complex / require more coding.
    * What's next?
        * Optix support
            * Having the right includes
            * MaterialX wanted this?
        * Help projects transition to VFX 2023 containers (PRs submitted)
        * Containers for new ASWF projects
            * OpenFX: uses `ci-base`
            * OpenImageIO: uses `ci-osl`
                * Should there a ci-openimageio? Larry: OpenImageIO is a hard dependency of OSL, so ci-osl has pretty much everything that oiio needs. Only a couple of additional dependencies are needed, not a lot. So the ci-osl is likely good enough, could make a dedicated container, but not sure it's worth it. Don't have "expensive" dependencies needed to install.
                * JC: there could be benefits when building the Python Wheels. When I did it a couple of years ago, had to rebuild the whole stack to get the static libraries, but it's in the future, not until TSC is in place.
                * Larry: there's probably a lot of homework to be done for this. JC: wasn't that bad, most complicated part is the licensing. Even shared libraries are complicated, there are many licenses involved.
                * JF: there's something to be said about symmetry / every ASWF project gets a container.
            * OpenRV / xStudio
                * Could it use ci-vfxall to start?
                * Kerby: will want a container that has Qt, ci-base could do. Not sure when, we have a CI internally so we're not blocked by it, we definitely want to have a CI so we can protect the repo. Most likely will start with building our own dependencies, later on pull dependencies from Conan.
                * Mike: has someone built xStudio in a CI? It has specific requirements, so it would benefit from it. Was able to build it locally, but it took some finagling. They have very specific version numbers they depend on (in their docs). The instructions were interesting since they haven't been building a 2023 platform, building against an earlier EL7 and skipped EL8, went straight to EL9. Would be interesting to see how that works outside of DNEG walls. Want to give people a reproducible way to build this.
            * OpenAssetIO: users `ci-base` derivative
                * JC: they get their dependencies from Conan. They have a dependency on TOML.
            * Rawtoaces (doesn't look like it has CI?)
                * Ci-base might be enough?
        * Further Conanification of packages (incorporate Foundry recipes)
            * Conan 2.0
        * Document how to use for GPU testing
        * Mechanism / process to make sure the containers remain up to date with ASWF project releases / third party minor releases in scope of VFX Platform year, how often to re-release
            * Andrew: GitHub has an RSS feed. JF: would want an aggregate RSS feed. Andrew: typically other foundations are holistically one large project, so all the projects are released together. Given the way ASWF operates, it would be more difficult. 
            * Kerby: we could hook ourself to the tags of the projects
            * Kerby: GitHub has some hidden pieces. Could they have an organization-level RSS feed.
            * JC: if all projects publish their release notes on each release, that could help, can get the aggregate of all releases between dates.
            * Kerby: internally we use the GitHub app on Slack, set it to just publish tags. We could do something more sophisticated, but this could be a good way to just get the release tags.
            * JF: can open a releng ticket to get this set up in Slack. Andrew: yes, we can see what we can do to implement this.
            * Kerby: OpenRV hasn't pushed tags since release, what do we define as a new version? Andrew: big proponent of semantic versioning, if you build an artifact and you don't have a version for it, that's a problem. TODO: JF to open ticket
* Open discussion: GUI app testing?
    * In scope?
* Commercial DCC integration
    * Move Houdini download project somewhere else? [https://github.com/tykeal/sidefx-web-cli](https://github.com/tykeal/sidefx-web-cli)
    * Would OpenFX want a Nuke / Resolve / Natron download for its projects?
* Candidate VFX centric libraries for inclusion in vfx-all?
    * For instance: https://www.openimagedenoise.org/

## Follow Ups

* GitHub Updates (Andrew)
    * Had monthly meeting 2 hours ago. There's a request from GitHub for those who have been using the GPU builders, please document and send them to Andrew. Their GPU side of thing has been on the back burner for a bit. We have free GPU for the foreseeable future, minimum of 2 more months, possibly longer, so if you want to use GPU, now is the time to use. We are one of a select group of projects who have access. Larry: OSL is blocked on the Optix issue. Andrew: please pass this information to us, they really want to know what's preventing users to use GPUs.
    * Andrew: no way for us to have a workflow that wouldn't require a "premium" runner when forking a repo. Known issue on their side. Also plays into reusable workflow, if you don't have access to that runner, can't use that reusable workflow.
    * Larry: anything about ARM runners? Andrew: not currently planned, but M1 runners going into open beta next month. M2 a bit further after that, not sure if they will have GPU passthrough, working with Apple on that. There's currently a closed beta we didn't get into. GitLab and CircleCI both announced Apple Silicon builders recently.
    * Right now the GitHub Actions team is focussed on stability.
    * Larry: nothing prevents our projects from using other CIs? Andrew: structure tends to be quite different between providers.
    * Mike from cost point of view, would it make sense to invest in a single Ampere server to provide these kinds of things for ARM / Linux builds? Andrew: we have access to ARM based systems if we really need it, we have a cloud provider in their Montreal data center that we use with our Jenkins system. It is a lot more work, we need to either spin up on demand, or have always running, but that's more expensive. Have very good ties with CTO / founder of that company, we have a lot of projects in that cloud, but they are all Jenkins based. Andrew: we don't do anything self hosted with GitHub, we are using premium runners. Mike: only Apple has ARM in production, until that field gets bigger, not sure how much of an investment we want to make into ARM on Linux. But if projects / vendors want to take closer look at ARM, Ampere and Talos have capable ARM workstations, at that point it might be worth if these environments don't have something in place that's cost effective, taking on the responsibility of maintaining security updates is a lot, but could be still more cost effective than waiting for CI providers to provide this. Some self hosted runners might be useful, allowing studios to self host a runner could be useful? JF: could just fork repo to their own org? Larry: all the hardware that we own is behind the firewall... Mike: yes, everyone is on the same page on that one. Andrew: from discussion with GitHub, part of reason they aren't pushing for ARM is that clients asking for it are cross compiling to run ARM on AWS Lambda. Only other use case they are seeing are a small subset trying to release ARM binaries, but still using cross compile. 
* Need to produce some kind of deliverable from our CII badging discussions
    * [https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/pull/376](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/pull/376)

## Tools and Links

* Does anyone still use Valgrind? If not, why not / any alternatives?

