---
title: 2023-03-01
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   01 March 2023 \

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Jean-Christophe Morin
* Andrew Grimberg, LF Release Engineering
* Aloys Baillet, NVIDIA
* Jeff Bradley, Dreamworks
* Kerby Geffrard, OpenRV

## Apologies

* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz, ILM

## New items

* Progress on VFX Platform Docker containers
    * Draft PR: [https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-docker/pull/166](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-docker/pull/166)
    * Current issues:
        * "Relocatable" Python build with hard coded paths in __sysconfigdata__linux_x86_64-linux-gnu-py
        * Conan Boost build looking for wrong Python version when building test suite: support for Conan 2.0 brings a lot of changes to the Conan Index recipes [https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/tree/master/recipes/boost](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/tree/master/recipes/boost)
        * More generally, should we be trying to use the standard recipes as much as possible, with perhaps just a script to make local changes we need?
            * Aloys: Conan seems to be getting more popular, and ConanIndex is getting contributions even from NVIDIA, there's more future to be more compatible with Conan Index than I anticipated. I copy pasted some of them since I thought we had some additional needs, main thing I couldn't find as a setting in Conan Index recipes was the Python version, but especially with Conan 2 we may not need that anymore. For instance the Boost package, you have to make sure that you have the right Python build for that. It's probably a bit of naivete that resulted in the copy-paste, may need to reconcile with Conan Index version. There's probably a good argument to try to take Conan recipes directly from Conan Index if possible, if they work we should use those instead of forking them.
            * Aloys: wanted to make sure VFX Platform was tagged in those recipes, or at least the OS, we could try again and see what we get. Would be interested to see how Conan can disambiguate between VFX platform years. Some historical decision may need to be revisited. You could try the Boost one directly.
            * JC: CMake version has to be higher than 3.18, where finding Python becomes much simpler.
        * Need to build Clang 15 as per Larry?
        * There was a technical issue internally that put the GL base images on hold, so basing it on the CUDA base images should be enough for now.
        * But much progress made, hopefully close to having first preview containers available. May just release to aswf-testing even if somewhat broken at first.
        * Aloys: there's a script to create a GitHub release to release to Docker Hub, can't do it locally since it requires the credentials that are in the GitHub organization.
* Security WG TAC presentation (Jean-Christophe)
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nqbT2CWaaedn6y2uVzHU_x8_raU3UtHHoJ2hgwHJ-hs/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nqbT2CWaaedn6y2uVzHU_x8_raU3UtHHoJ2hgwHJ-hs/edit#)
    * JC: the discussion was whether it should be its own WG vs being part of the CI WG. Was a bit difficult to know what the TAC wanted, "go talk to CI WG and figure it out".
    * Is the CI WG interested in taking that WG, we only meet once a month right now, we should probably meet more than every month (every two weeks?). And could alternate between security and CI. Not sure of the benefit of having that inside the CI WG, but could make sense at the beginning if mostly the same people are present at the meetings.
    * Discussions around having people from a "real" background in security work in the context of the WG, some concerns around that since we don't have anyone dedicated to security in ASWF.
    * JC: discussion was to bring people from security background, might ask people inside their organization. I'm concerned a bit about merging security and CI, not clear that the security part would be inside the WG, if we want folks from security background to find us, not super obvious how to find us, and they might not be interested in the CI aspect. There are common interests since security only has to deal with CI, building binaries, but maybe not similar enough to merge the two.
    * JF: I think there's an argument for a separate WG, but in close collaboration.
    * JC: we could merge the two at the beginning, and if there's interest from foundation members and they are ready to dedicate resources, then we can spin up a separate WG. Would get us up and running, and later split up the two?
    * Andrew: usually Security is a dedicated team per foundation, but will be overlap with CI/ tools. But not necessarily the same folks. The fact that we've been doing both here is a bit unique, but on the flip side the people attending this WG are the ones working across most of the projects. The people you want on your security team you want to be people who understand the codebase at large. JC: in the goals of the proposal, it wasn't to own the security for each project, but act as giving guidance, resources, and collaboration between projects. Andrew: not saying the security folks need to know the code the best, but have the training and resources for security related topics. Other Foundations that have a security team, it can be the top engineers, or people trained in spotting security issues, or know who to talk to to address security issues in a project. Have enough knowledge to spot a security issue and pull in the right developer to address it.
    * Is the TAC expectation whether CI WG is willing to take on this work? We are lightly attended today, so will take the poll in the Slack channel (JF TODO).
* ASWF for pay ReadTheDocs account
    * request from OpenRV, but potentially useful for many projects
    * Moving forward: open a ticket to get this going. Once this is done, RelEng can set up a master account and see about getting payment setup and we don't get the ads. At which point it's just a matter to add projects as needed as sub components.
    * JC: are the ads that bad? Andrew: $5 a month is really not too bad for open source projects, and worth supporting the RTD project. LF projects kept asking "how do we pay for this?".
    * JF TODO will open a ticket to request this.
    * There is a token that's used to tell RTD to go build the combination, it builds the docs preferably. Token is per repo or maybe repo? JC: you add your project, it automatically sets up a webhook with a token. Andrew: LF RelEng has lots of tooling internally using their REST API, not sure how easy it would be to port to ASWF since it's all in Gerrit, we have mechanisms that create the subprojects in RTD, might be possible to re-engineer for ASWF?
    * JC: not sure we expect lots of projects to be created? Andrew: we can provide people to their given project if they need to manually rebuild, the Project Technical Lead can get access to the RTD project.
    * JC: when we add projects as subprojects, they lose access to administration of the project? Andrew: in RTD there's the administrator of the particular project, then the ability to regenerate docs. The administrator can link a repository to a namespace. JC: also gives you access to setting which version? Andrew: yes, and would still be able to get access to that.
* Creating a ASWF NPM org? Would that be a LF RelEng thing?
    * Would that also be a ticket? JC: MaterialX has webassembly bindings, and OTIO working on JS bindings, so at some point we will want to publish our stuff. Will create a ticket to create an organization to be created. JC TODO
* LLVM builds with extra error-checking assertions (Larry)
    * -DLLVM_ENABLE_ASSERTIONS=ON -DLLVM_ENABLE_BACKTRACES=ON
    * Latest version only OK? How to tag these containers?
* Open Review Initiative CI requirements
    * Larry + JF attended last TSC, presented what we have
    * Eventual need for GUI-based testing, reproducible performance / real-time testing
    * JC: OTIO has 2 x Timeline viewer. Also OpenCue does have a GUI that they test.
    * Kerby: Autodesk has access to internal VMs, ended up having to have a physical workstation ready to run tests, can't just use VM, there's always a blip that kills performance. Something you want to have thresholds. A dedicated machine under someone's desk connected to Jenkins. For apps like RV, we wanted to look at Squish but too extensive, built an internal testing library. Having 100% on a GUI is basically impossible. Also want to test all the media types. Will be a really interesting problem to come up with a testing strategy. For a GUI, need to test the critical paths and be "reasonable". Do we have access to GPU instances?
    * Andrew: we have access to some GPU instances via GHA on Windows and Linux only, some people have access to them. Currently free to us because we are in the beta program, but will be for pay. We also have AWS CodeBuild, but that requires setup.
    * JC: any timeline was discussed? Kirby: for OpenRV, talking about CI in next quarter, quality gates at each PR, so starting to look at it. Someone forked the repo and set up a GHA pipeline. Maybe they will make a PR? Or we could reach out and see if they are interested in contributing.

## Follow Ups

* Need to produce some kind of deliverable from our CII badging discussions
    * [https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/pull/376](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/pull/376)
* Update on GitHub Actions for pay runners (Andrew)
    * No update on GPU pricing. Will be making next meeting and will talk about pricing.
    * Bill for February just came in, we spent $1100 out of $1500 cap (soft cap at $1450).
* Aswf-docker update (Aloys)
* Transition from TBB to OneAPI
    * No progress, need to get update from VFX Platform as to feedback from vendors
    * JC: vendors could also contribute? Or engage with projects? With VFX Platform it's at least not a surprise what's coming next.

## Tools and Links

* [Ruff](https://github.com/charliermarsh/ruff), a fast Python linter written in Rust
* [GitHub Blocks](https://blocks.githubnext.com/): dynamic widgets for your README.md
* [runner.server](https://github.com/ChristopherHX/runner.server) : A custom GH Actions runner to run workflows locally
* [Conan 2.0](https://blog.conan.io/2023/02/22/Conan-2.0.html) released
