---
title: 2023-01-04
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   04 January 2022

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset (VES Technology Committee)
* Jean-Christophe Morin
* Larry Gritz (Sony Imageworks)
* Andrew Grimberg, LF Release Engineering
* Viven Iyer, Animal Logic
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz, ILM
* Scott Wilson, Rust Working Group
* Aloys Baillet, NVIDIA
* Ryan Bottriel, ILM
* Jeff Bradley, Dreamworks

## Apologies

*

## New items

* Proposal for "small" project: asset / shot validation from Scott Wilson.  [https://github.com/scott-wilson/checks/](https://github.com/scott-wilson/checks/)
    * Elevator pitch: part of a suite of tools I am working on, framework to validate assets, shots, this is something I've seen in multiple studios. Hence the usefulness of an open source version.
    * Types of checks: you have rigged a character and want to publish the rig, may have a suite of things you want to validate to make sure the rig is OK: name is correct, flags are set / unset, whatever the studio needs to make sure the rig passes to next step of the pipeline. Or if you are publishing surfacing information, want to check that selected textures exist. A number of QA steps to make sure assets are good. Could be extended to shot work, making sure that hypothetically that when animators are ready to publish, that the rigs are the approved versions. So depends on what the studio requirements are.
    * Like "CTest" / unit test for assets and shots. Framework has APIs in C, working on C++, Python 3.7 and higher, and Rust.
    * Tests are integrated in the framework, not just arbitrary executables. Would run the Python version within Maya for instance. Could make it so the framework spawns off a different process per check, and look at return codes. Doesn't have too many "opinions" just yet.
    * Ryan: this is not being used right now, brand new? Scott: yes, based on experience from the last few studios.
    * License: going off the Rust community says, MIT or Apache 2, currently "one or the other".
    * Looking for a home within ASWF. Could live in a few different places, it's still quite small, could be under CI WG, Rust WG, Review WG (now a project). Not pushing one way or another, but want a home within ASWF. Feel that this is a great community to have something like this under.
    * Project isn't quite ready for a full ASWF project status, but once it's 1.0 ready, it could still live under CI, or become a full project.
    * Larry: if there were many pipeline related tools, there could be a pipeline WG that oversees this. What is the argument against just "incubating it on your own", get people using it. What's the advantage to being under CI WG as opposed to just having it under your own. Scott: have access to ASWF has, a bit more reach within dev community, also more CI resources. Larry: I run 2 big projects, one in ASWF, one in not, not sure the ASWF project has more CI resources? It's quite easy for projects that aren't technically ASWF to "draft" on the ASWF infrastructure and community. Scott: I have set up a CI within GHA, has been pretty successful. Thinking mid to long term, "my little of the Internet" vs the broader exposure of the ASWF rather than just by myself. Ryan: I think there are 2 scenarios, having credibility by being associated with ASWF. Might want to look for solid user base? But visibility makes it possible for more people to discover the project. Maybe we have an ongoing list of "awesome projects" (Larry: there's the ASWF Landscape page). Larry: if we view the ASWF as being associated with a project as boosting visibility, it puts a lot of responsibility on us to live up to it properly. Not sure that's something we are prepared to take on. Do we want to be the "king makers"? Not sure what the answer is. What do we do when 10 of these projects land at our door. What is our responsibility? Being an ASWF project doesn't mean you get "showered" with help, every project struggles with getting their basic work done. Might end up starving for resources. Ryan: could give the illusion that a project is well maintained because it is in ASWF (not saying this is the case). Larry: yes, I think that's something our projects face. But don't want to be down on this project, there's something cool here. But dynamics would be different if it was already used in a couple of places. Don't interpret any of this as us being negative about this.
    * JC: we have the sandbox project space, could be pitched to TAC at sandbox stage. Scott: John has asked to present to next TAC meeting. Decision to present to TAC will depend on this decision. JF: could be a test case for a sandbox project.
    * Scott: worst case, this could be something in the future. Will keep working on it as a personal project, and try to get people to have fun with it. Ryan: not sure what ASWF Sandbox projects are for. But general opinion is that using these meetings to get it in the notes, get some visibility is great. But without an existing user base, harder to argue for direct association. Larry: an exception is the Review & Approval project, where there aren't existing users, but reason to set it up as a sandbox project is that it has 3 big ASWF Premier member companies that wanted to collaborate, and needed a place for it to land. Have commitment from those 3 major companies on development side. So clear benefit, and why it needed to be in ASWF. The model exists for coming without users, but not without users or developers. Also needs to be from multiple places: otherwise the individual or the company should sponsor it. But when multiple parties need to collaborate, we are that neutral place.
    * Larry: giving talks here and the TAC are ways to boost visibility.
    * JF: can help you prepare for a TAC presentation. Scott: don't have an official name for the project yet, more than happy to present at the TAC and see what people thing / whether they want to play with it. Doesn't seem like a solution searching for a problem, have had to solve this problem multiple times before. So could def provide value to studios. But no Python 2!
* Update on GitHub Actions for pay runners (Andrew)
    * Any numbers from December 2022?
        * $1,050 out of the $1.5K hard limit (credit card) in December. Primarily Linux runners, but a few Windows as well. All 8GB machines, no bigger machines yet.
        * Larry: haven't been able to set up OSL yet, so more potential demand coming
        * Probably all from OpenVDB? Andrew: probably so?
        * Aloys: have been building aswf-docker images, they don't all need the for-pay builders. Andrew: can only find out by looking at report. Unfortunately no way to get this automatically / in real time.
    * Updates from GitHub (GPU runners?)
    * M1 runners on public roadmap for Q3 2023: [https://github.com/orgs/github/projects/4247?pane=item&itemId=5944419](https://github.com/orgs/github/projects/4247?pane=item&itemId=5944419)
        * Andrew: They are aware we are very interested
        * JC: will we have to pay for those? Andrew: yes
* Aswf-docker update (Aloys)
    * (Last) Update for CY2022: [https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-docker/pull/161](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-docker/pull/161)
        * Aloys: not necessarily the last update, could be a security issue, or if something needs to be updated, could republish. But likely the last big update. Blosc update that was requested, Python 3.9.15.
    * Ready for external review / merge? Did adding ASWF_INSTALL_PREFIX env var to containers resolve yum issues?
        * Almost ready for external reviews, hoping the yum wrapper issue is fixed. Surprised I didn't catch it in a test, so want to add a test for that. Once I have the test and finalize changelogs, ready to review.
        * Larry: haven't been able to look at updated images, will remove the workaround that was calling /usr/bin/yum It was the most minor of inconveniences, validates my earlier choice to stay with aswftesting, wouldn't have caught it. Writing tests is good, but no substitute for actually using. Testament to how stable it generally is, this is the first time I remembered whether I had stayed with aswftesting, it had been like that for a while.
        * No more "pseudo containers" for Python, TBB, these now get installed from Conan packages.
            * Aloys: there was a GitHub symlink issue / shebang issue, fixed it, but didn't want to fix it in two places, so just fixed it in Conan package. As things progress, will stop using the Docker pseudo packages, and will just use the Conan ones. Don't want to do it all at once, there's a risk (like the yum breakage), but less code to maintain. And validates the Conan packages.
    * CY2023 containers:
        * Needs to be based on RHEL8 or derived based on glibc 2.28 requirement
        * Nvidia cudagl base containers seem to have stalled ("on temporary hiatus"), issues with centos8 tag:
            * [https://gitlab.com/nvidia/container-images/cudagl/-/tree/DOCS](https://gitlab.com/nvidia/container-images/cudagl/-/tree/DOCS)
            * [https://gitlab.com/nvidia/container-images/cudagl/-/tree/ubuntu20.04](https://gitlab.com/nvidia/container-images/cudagl/-/tree/ubuntu20.04)
            * Should we build our own CUDA base container, based on Rocky 8 / Alma 8 / RHEL UBI 8? This could be a recent change (looking at tags on Docker Hub). Aloys: there's both UBI 8 and Rocky 8 base cuda images, we'll have to decide the one we want.
            * Aloys: rough idea is that we should try the "pure" nvidia/cuda base container and see if things build. Hoping that by the time we get there, the cudagl containers will pick up. Adrian proposed to help with CY2023 containers. Starting with nvidia/cuda-12 packages should be a good start, can spend a bunch of time rebuilding the build scripts. The cudagl is a small bit of runtime, more about the driver being able to run X11 stuff. JF: OCIO test suite may need this. Aloys: long term should become available.
            * Should be starting soon, hard to estimate how much time, it could be easy, or not.
        * Any "low hanging fruit" for additional Conan packages?
            * Aloys: the Alembic one is a stub, haven't had time to finish, could be worth tackling next, the structure is there, but not finished or tested. Need to get the order of dependencies right. Alembic based on an existing one found on Conan Central, but wasn't working. There are already recipes for popular packages, but they are of varying quality. Want to make sure the ones we use are similar so we can use matrices of configurations.
        * Should Intel Compiler be added to build matrix on top of gcc and clang?
            * Does the license allow bundling in a container or not? Larry: Intel provides freely downloadable packages for CI, but not clear if they can be redistributed. It's not a big deal to install them, it's not critical, the people who want to test against Intel can do the same thing I did. The place where you download from Intel just put a new version, now no longer compatible with CentOS 7 (glibc). So maybe only target CY2023 containers. Containers are a good way to preserve dependencies we don't want changing from under us.
            * JF: could be a document on how to use Intel compilers within aswf-docker. Larry: we could go to Intel pages and see if there's a way to download specific versions / rules on packaging / redistribution. Aggregating other people's binary software is tricky. Sometimes the Intel download page goes down.
* CII  Badge Requirements review
    * Link to document: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oncI0hbkreAefeidUmbwB_Tl36UNFzI88SbVDe1oKOg/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oncI0hbkreAefeidUmbwB_Tl36UNFzI88SbVDe1oKOg/edit?usp=sharing)
    * We finished the review, what should be our deliverables from this effort?
        * A page showing status for all ASWF projects based on API? [https://github.com/coreinfrastructure/best-practices-badge/blob/main/doc/api.md](https://github.com/coreinfrastructure/best-practices-badge/blob/main/doc/api.md)
        * JC: that information is not too hard to get, look at the badges?
        * Publishing our commentaries?
        * Reaching out to individual projects, offering help to unblock specific issues?
        * JC: I like the idea, at least to aggregate and make available all the stuff we went through in the last couple of WG meetings.
* Proposed "small" projects from Robin Rowe at TAC meeting, is this something CI WG could adopt?
    * [Libunistd](https://github.com/robinrowe/libunistd) : an abstraction layer allowing the use of POSIX APIs when porting to Windows
    * [Cmaker](https://gitlab.com/robinrowe/cmaker) : a Cmake-based project template generator
    * Also file I/O abstraction layer from OIIO

## Follow Ups

*

## Tools and Links

*
