---
title: 2023-04-26
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   26 April 2023

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Jean-Christophe Morin
* Andrew Grimberg, LF Release Engineering
* Aloys Baillet, NVIDIA
* Kerby Geffrard, OpenRV
* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz, ILM
* Ryan Botriell, ILM
* Mike Rochefort, Skydance Animation

## Apologies

*

## New Items

* CI WG annual progress report to TAC
    * Was supposed to be next week, pushed to May 17th
    * JF happy to present, anyone else interested (could co-present)? JF to present solo. Aloys to help review slides.
    * What should we highlight?
        * Aswf-docker containers
        * Artifactory server
        * ReadTheDocs paid instance
        * GitHub paid builders
        * Docker Hub paid repository
        * Ryan: this meeting happens, people can come, can bring requests, "our project can really use X"
        * PyPI organization: JC and Andrew can help all projects with PyPI.
        * The work on OpenSSF badging, we can provide advice or help
        * Tooling in general, SonarCloud, coverage, fuzzing
        * Wish list? (GHA runner replication for instance)
* Progress on VFX Platform Docker containers
    * Draft PR: [aswf-docker pr#166](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-docker/pull/166)
    * Current issues / progress
        * CUDA only vs CUDA + OpenGL base container
            * Creating issue building glfw / glew packages which want to see OpenGL headers
            * NVIDIA script to build cudagl on top of cuda containers, works standalone, needs to be shoehorned into existing build sequence: [build.sh](https://gitlab.com/nvidia/container-images/cuda/-/blob/master/build.sh)
        * Starting to publish some draft containers under aswftesting Docker Hub org, and pushing to Artifactory
    * Should we switch to using llvm-toolset for clang, or want the option of moving at our own pace?
        * [https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_developer_tools/1/html/using_llvm_14.0.6_toolset/assembly_llvm](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_developer_tools/1/html/using_llvm_14.0.6_toolset/assembly_llvm)
        * [https://download.rockylinux.org/pub/rocky/8/AppStream/x86_64/os/Packages/l/](https://download.rockylinux.org/pub/rocky/8/AppStream/x86_64/os/Packages/l/)
        * Larry: for OSL it is handy to be able to test against a few different versions, it makes use of that. And have transition to clang16 which breaks compatibility, deprecate some functionality that's being relied on. Need to test and be confident.
        * Adding clang16 would be useful to OSL.
        * Aloys: could use paid workers to build clang, won't time out like you do with the free workers. There's a branch that has support for paid workers.
    * Extending / generalizing `aswfdocker` tool to allow other projects to build and push Conan packages to Artifactory?
        * Is it too specific?
        * JC: publishing to Artifactory is not a difficult task, can do it with Conan CLI, credentials come from GitHub environment. Twine could be used to publish Python packages. Aloys: Inside ASWF containers, conan is already in place, variables in place, not sure anyone has tried it before, but should be "trivial". Andrew: there's also a JFrog CLI available. We already have credentials in the org, those will work for publishing in general. Alois: main thing is having the right Conan version. Depends on whether you want to set up dependencies to existing packages.
    * Hoping for a smoother process for 2024.
* Guidance on reproducing "CI only" problems - multithreading issues on different core count machines (Kimball / OpenEXR)
    * Failure only showing up on low core count systems
    * Larry: happened after last OpenEXR TSC, mostly wizzed by on PRs / issues, a threading bug that resisted all attempts at reproduction except on CI machine.
    * Kimball was trying to rewrite a chunk of threadpool stuff "blind", but wasn't able to reproduce locally, even using the containers. Not sure if he got to the bottom of it. Since then he's rewritten the thread system, runs fine both locally and on CI.
    * Christina: something different on GitHub runner?
    * Larry: something deep in threadpool library can be very sensitive to number of cores, VM state... Or maybe something sensitive to kernel version, even though he was running container, it was still a kernel difference. It's been fixed
    * JC: container will use same container a Linux host. Andrew: that's correct. If this was really a core count issue, one way to give a similar feeling would be to run a low core count VM and install Docker inside that VM. One way to enforce that your system is only seeing that many cores.
    * JC: could also be CPU architecture version. GitHub documents the VM type on Azure, so can figure out the CPU architecture Also HT can be in play.
    * JF: document how to reproduce a GitHub Actions runner? JC: clone their repository, build the VM image, and run it on Azure VM, with difference on the networking and storage since those are not documented.
* Sonar Cloud version in aswf-docker may be obsolete / below minimum (Christina)
    * JF to check version for 2023
    * How far back do we need to re-release containers
    * Document how to use GitHub Actions? Use Dependabot.  There is a GitHub Action specifically for that, but cannot it cannot install it in inside the build container (or maybe?). So add to the job definition.
    * In context of OpenEXR. Christina to report back on change to OpenEXR.
    * [SonarCloud GitHub Action](https://github.com/SonarSource/sonarcloud-github-action)
* Larry: have presented OIIO as official project
    * Extensive GHA CI system, use a bunch of the aswf-docker containers, mostly the OSL one. Sometimes delete the OIIO in there. Have a bunch of matrix test cases that I don't rely on the containers, want to try other combinations. OIIO has a lot of dependencies, want to try a lot of combinations that people compile against. Lean heavily on containers as much as possible.
    * Christina: how many jobs in the CI? Larry: 20, the maximum it will do in parallel, always looking at other test cases, don't want to have too much "turnaround". It's a bit of a black art to managing this matrix.
    * JC: if you are in the GitHub org you'll get a lot more jobs. Larry: yes, a lot of reasons. CI was part of the motivation, access to GPU runners, new things coming along. Some things you can benefit without being an ASWF project (like the containers), but being in the org, you can use the secrets to access GPU runners for instance. So one of the consideration to submit the project.
    * Andrew: org can have 180 jobs at the same time, across all the projects. Larry: would love to see the graph daily. No idea how close we get. Andrew: no idea how to get this info, will bring back to GitHub. Larry: are we right at the edge? JC: I think we're safe, before we were "Enterprise", we were hitting the limits, but now we don't seem to anymore. Our projects don't have commits every minute. Larry: have a lot of matrix entries for OSL, never consciously noticed we were hitting it. Andrew: not sure how to see this administratively. Larry: seem to be nowhere near the edge, but we'll hit it at some point?
    * Andrew: monthly meeting with GitHUb last week, what's the difference between the Enterprise Plan vs Enterprise Account (which LF has). Enterprise Account is umbrella org over other argos, with a single billing location, but sub orgs can have different billing plans, so we could transition ASWF to an Enterprise Account with multiple project with Enterprise Plans. It could be possible, depends on how big we get.
    * JF: please open a PR with the list of dependencies needed for a ci-oiio build container
    * Mike: OIIO vs OCIO circular dependencies? Larry: OIIO uses OCIO, but OCIO has command line utilities that use OIIO, unrelated to the core library. This was a pain for a lot of people, had to do a multiple stage build. This is fixed in 2 ways: this is now fully documented, with the the command line utils as an optional build, and as the ability to use OpenEXR instead of OIIO and limit command line utilities to OpenEXR.

## Follow Ups

* Security WG TAC presentation (Jean-Christophe)
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nqbT2CWaaedn6y2uVzHU_x8_raU3UtHHoJ2hgwHJ-hs/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nqbT2CWaaedn6y2uVzHU_x8_raU3UtHHoJ2hgwHJ-hs/edit#)
    * JF: poll in the Slack channel (JF TODO).
    * JF: TODO to have a decision by the next meeting.
    * JC: pretty much dead for now unless we put more energy into it. So likely just the CI WG. There was some movement a couple of months ago, but it seemed to die on the vine.
* JC: update on PyPI organizations
    * Official announcement: [https://blog.pypi.org/posts/2023-04-23-introducing-pypi-organizations/](https://blog.pypi.org/posts/2023-04-23-introducing-pypi-organizations/)
    * Andrew: From the application it is implied that the long form is what people will see when they are browsing the org "site". The short will be the namespace
    * Haven't heard back, it's a manual process for now (volunteers are looking at details). JC: some organizations were approved recently, so it looks like PyPI volunteers are in the process of approvals.
    * Andrew/JC: we should get approved, but it's volunteers.
* ASWF for pay ReadTheDocs account
    * Should now be working, how do we tell the projects (TAC update? Regular TAC updates? Slack channel posts?)
    * Andrew: was working on trying to get this all taken care of. The two organizations were done under Linux Foundation account, so need to create an ASWF account, move OpenRV / xStudio to new organization. So not quite ready yet.
    * While we can do $5/month plan, they have other plans which are recommended for corporate entities. So requesting a $50/month plan. Will go for $5/month right now, we can request budget next year. Will need TAC / budget committee to move to $50/month plan. Andrew to take care of it.
    * Everything is working right now.
    * Larry: hadn't noticed there were ads since have ad blocker. Have never heard a user complain, so not sure it's a big deal. Andrew: agreed, mostly doing this as a form of support, they will earn more money from such a subscription than through ads. Larry: agreed, RTD is great and use it for multiple projects.
    * JC: who is the admin for RTD? Andrew: right now is the LF account, admins can be attached per project. Typically we create a central role account that LF RelEng holds, the named account that holds these documentation sites. And grant committers of the projects rights for the corresponding document site. Have been migrating to using the GH integration so that as changes are pushed to the repo, RTD updates the documentation automatically. Seems mostly reliable, only had it fail (transient failure) once.
    * JC: to get the logs, you don't need to be an admin? Andrew: you need to have rights against the project to get logs. At least that actual build logs of the documentation.
    * Andrew: will get the LF / ASWF organization thing resolved. Will be done in time for May 17.
* Need to produce some kind of deliverable from our CII badging discussions
    * [https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/pull/376](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/pull/376)
* Update on GitHub Actions for pay runners (Andrew)
    * Last couple of months, we've been significantly under our budget, which is good. So not bumping into the app. 3 days left in billing cycle, have only used $800 of our $1450 cap, around the same last month.
    * JC: still mostly OpenVDB? Andrew: haven't pulled a usage report. Larry: not yet, wants to, but blocked by Optix problem.
    * Andrew: we were over $1K for Jan/Feb, under for March, haven't gotten April billing yet.
    * GPU runners are not GA yet, for now we are still seeing those free of charge.
    * JF: will tackle the Optix thing next
* Transition from TBB to OneAPI
    * No progress, need to get update from VFX Platform as to feedback from vendors
    * JF TODO: read out to vendors for requirements

## Tools and Links

* Discussion on native builds and support in glibc 2.33 to load DSOs based on specific CPU capabilities:
    * Available in RHEL8 (Mike R):
    * [https://gitlab.com/redhat/centos-stream/rpms/glibc/-/blob/c8s/glibc.spec#L3128](https://gitlab.com/redhat/centos-stream/rpms/glibc/-/blob/c8s/glibc.spec#L3128)
* Support for large macOS runners: [https://github.blog/changelog/2023-04-24-github-actions-faster-macos-runners-are-now-available-in-open-public-beta/](https://github.blog/changelog/2023-04-24-github-actions-faster-macos-runners-are-now-available-in-open-public-beta/)
* Dockerfile linter: [https://github.com/hadolint/hadolint](https://github.com/hadolint/hadolint)
* GitHub Actions linter: [https://github.com/rhysd/actionlint](https://github.com/rhysd/actionlint)
* JC: Trusted publishers on PyPI: [https://blog.pypi.org/posts/2023-04-20-introducing-trusted-publishers/](https://blog.pypi.org/posts/2023-04-20-introducing-trusted-publishers/)
* QT 6.5 released: [https://www.qt.io/blog/qt-6.5-lts-released](https://www.qt.io/blog/qt-6.5-lts-released)
* Ephemeral Apple Silicon GHA runners with Cidermill: [https://github.com/reaperhulk/cidermill](https://github.com/reaperhulk/cidermill)
* [GitHub Actions extension for VS Code](https://github.blog/2023-03-28-announcing-the-github-actions-extension-for-vs-code/)
