---
title: 2023-03-29
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   29 March 2023 \

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Jean-Christophe Morin
* Andrew Grimberg, LF Release Engineering
* Aloys Baillet, NVIDIA
* Jeff Bradley, Dreamworks
* Kerby Geffrard, OpenRV
* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks

## Apologies

*

## New items

* Progress on VFX Platform Docker containers
    * Draft PR: [https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-docker/pull/166](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-docker/pull/166)
    * Current issues / progress
        * "Relocatable" Python build with hard coded paths in __sysconfigdata__linux_x86_64-linux-gnu-py
            * Better solution: sysconfigdata patched at Conan install time, requires packages to be installed differently
        * aswf-base containers will include clang 14 and 15, what about 16?
        * There was a technical issue internally that put the GL base images on hold, so basing it on the CUDA base images should be enough for now.
            * Interesting info from NVIDIA on the topic, hopefully there will be some progress on official cudagl containers, but we'll probably make our own
            * Do we need just the header file for Optix? Larry: we had been dying Optix headers on the fly, but it's not enough for OSL to run its test suite, some missing DSO / option that needs to be turned on. Needed to run on the GHA beta GPU runners. But still using normal images. Is there anything we can fix in the current of containers? We can't run the current test suite on any of the runners? Aloys: is that an issue only on the GHA runners, have you tried locally? Larry: I haven't tried that. Aloys: I was able to run a lot of things from CUDAGL containers, including full GUI apps. Larry: but possibly not Optix.
            * Aloys: def trying to figure out what happens with Optix. The Optix DLL / DSO seems to be part of the host installation rather than the container installation. Larry: we may not be able to solve this in the container, and needs to be solved at the host side, and needs to be communicated back to GitHub. Aloys: will need to do local testing. JF: we seem to have the right contacts at NVIDIA.
            * JF: hoping to remove "draft" this weekend. Not sure how to push to aswftesting? Aloys: we can figure this out offline, the Docker Hub credentials are part of the org, the aswfdocker command line tool has a 'release' option to do specific releases, it creates the right named GitHub release, you need to authenticate with GitHub, it's explained somewhere in the docs. It will create a release with the right tag, and trigger a Docker Hub release from the GitHub release. It should all be working easily, we can try that locally to try the aswftesting, we can try this offline.
        *
* Security WG TAC presentation (Jean-Christophe)
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nqbT2CWaaedn6y2uVzHU_x8_raU3UtHHoJ2hgwHJ-hs/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nqbT2CWaaedn6y2uVzHU_x8_raU3UtHHoJ2hgwHJ-hs/edit#)
    * Is the TAC expectation whether CI WG is willing to take on this work? We are lightly attended today, so will take the poll in the Slack channel (JF TODO).
        * I didn't do this, any further thoughts?
    * JC: no further project / not much activity on the channel. Didn't put more thoughts on it, but looking at different options on the technical side, how all our projects could generate SBOMs, how we could integrate with LFX Security platform, reaching out to product owners, and what should we do.
    * JC: still missing some members on the last meeting, we'll have to make a decision at some point.
    * JF: TODO to have a decision by the next meeting.
* ASWF for pay ReadTheDocs account
    * [https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/desk/portal/2/IT-25255](https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/desk/portal/2/IT-25255)
    * [https://aswf-openrv.readthedocs.io/en/latest/](https://aswf-openrv.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
    * [https://aswf-xstudio.readthedocs.io/en/latest/](https://aswf-xstudio.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
    * What other ASWF projects use RTD, would they be interested in the paid / ad free instance as well?
    * Primary RTD account has been setup, OpenRV and xstudio projects have been configured, but haven't set up the paid for account yet, need to add the credit card info. So for now we're only doing the free configuration with ads. One of the sites is building properly, one has problems.
    * Andrew: if RTD is configured for GitHub and has administrative rights, then it will automatically setup web hooks so that when changes happen, it will automatically update the documentation based on merging to main, PRs... If you are on another platform, then you would need to implement this yourself with tokens.
    * In RTD you configure which branch you want your documentation to come from, can be modified via API or manually. RTD itself does the build of the documentation. It is possible to "manually" push the documents, but it's a lot simpler to just let it do its thing. JC: for more complex projects, you can configure RTD from the repository. For OTIO we use Conda to install packages when packages are being built, everything happens on the RTD side.
    * Is the $5/month commercial account valid for all ASWF projects? Andrew: yes, for all projects that are managed by this account. It's a bit confusing, the RelEng docs are setup as a single site for SSL, all the repos that are part of the documentation are configured as sub project of the master project, so they have to be hosted from a single RTD site /  namespace. Larry: what's the advantage of being under such an umbrella? Andrew: not a problem, it's around how it's managed, as well as a document hierarchy thing. If it's all under one master account, then it works fine, otherwise you are on the free plans. Larry: the deal for Open Source projects seems good? Andrew: the ads are unobtrusive. Larry: never noticed them! Do they show up in the documentation? JC: maybe in the left panel? At the bottom, "ethical ads". Or could be we all run ad blockers (they are blocked by uBlock Origin). JC: the ads are tech-specific. Andrew: other LF projects are doing this, we want to pay for this to support the service. The money is relatively inconsequential, if enough projects want to keep the service running, then it sticks around, and hopefully don't need to move to "non ethical" ads. Larry: wasn't arguing against it. Andrew: when you set up the alias for the projects, you can pick what you want. RelEng picked aswf-openrv / aswf-xstudio, but it's not necessary. Things would be a bit more complex to get custom URLs. ASWF is a bit unique in that we are an umbrella for a bunch of top-level projects, other projects are an umbrella of top level projects which themselves have a bunch of subprojects. JF: Although OTIO does have a number of sub projects, and lives in their own GitHub org. Andrew: right, but they probably should all be under their own RTD org. JC: but only one of them is on RTD.

## Follow Ups

* JC: update on PyPI organizations: [https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-organization-account-roadmaps/14699/10](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-organization-account-roadmaps/14699/10)
    * It's not "dead" yet, but no specific timeline, working on the legal aspects
* Need to produce some kind of deliverable from our CII badging discussions
    * [https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/pull/376](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/pull/376)
* Update on GitHub Actions for pay runners (Andrew)
    * Have not been able to get into this meeting with GHA due to schedule conflict in January or February. Will attend next month.
* Transition from TBB to OneAPI
    * No progress, need to get update from VFX Platform as to feedback from vendors
    * JF TODO: read out to vendors for requirements

## Tools and Links

* Discussion on native builds and support in glibc 2.33 (not until RHEL 9) to load DSOs based on specific CPU capabilities: [https://www.theregister.com/2023/03/09/opensuse_finds_x86_64_solution/](https://www.theregister.com/2023/03/09/opensuse_finds_x86_64_solution/)
    * Larry: as with other dependencies, make decisions of how far back you want to support. You can leave a lot of performance on the table. OSL does something complicated since it has both the issue of what you want at build time, what architecture to you want, but also which architectures are you JITing for. A lot of this was donated by Intel, they really wanted to squeeze every bit of performance, for instance using AVX-512. We clustered a lot of the functionality into DSOs that are compiled with different architecture flags, and at runtime it decides based on the CPU or user selection. But could be done differently. Probably wouldn't be able to use native glibc support, we are on multiple platforms. But building for lowest common denominator does lose performance. JF: gcc will use AVX-512 aggressively. Larry: AVX-512 has weird performance cliffs, if you have long runs of AVX-512 instructions you get good performance, but if you don't keep all the SIMD lanes occupied, you can "fall off the fast path", or the CPU can clock down, you can end up with less performance. It's a complicated set of trade offs.
    * JF: would OpenEXR benefit? Larry: it uses 4-wide intrinsics / inline assembly, but not for the latest stuff. OpenEXR could use a good scrubbing of how this works, in particular in the context of compiling for ARM, and all these are only for x86. Not a good abstraction level that would hide the details of which intrinsics to use.
* Secure Shell Debugging for GHA: one of the benefits of being under the ASWF "free Enterprise" org: [https://github.com/orgs/github/projects/4247/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=10457935](https://github.com/orgs/github/projects/4247/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=10457935)
    * Pros and cons of projects under ASWF org vs their own
    * Andy: we get Enterprise access, but we are not operating a GitHub Enterprise. There are some things that are not available to us given the ORG the LF has. The Enterprise level can bring in other organizations, we are not able to do that, we don't have a "GitHub Enterprise" for ASWF. The ASWF GitHub organization has the higher limits that the Enterprise level turns on for us. We get "90% of the Enterprise benefits without being an Enterprise". For instance we may not have the feature flag for "Secure Shell Debugging" enabled. Unless we have an Enterprise account that I don't have access to, we don't have access to a full Enterprise account (LF has one for its own internal projects). So we have feature flags of Enterprise turned on, but not an actual Enterprise account. Although the billing plan says "Enterprise Plan".
    * We can definitely ask for access to a feature that we don't have access.
    * The Enterprise setup requires setting up 'seats' ahead of time. GitHub has been gracious about granting access, but we may end up with too many seats.
* CMake dependency provider for Conan 2.0: [https://github.com/conan-io/cmake-conan/tree/develop2](https://github.com/conan-io/cmake-conan/tree/develop2)
* New Python C++ binding generator: [nanobind](https://github.com/wjakob/nanobind)
    * Same author of PyBind, rewrite with a tighter focus
    * JC: reused the experience with PyBind11 to get a simplified version that works with more modern tooling, smaller binaries, faster code.
    * Philosophy has changed quite a bit, PyBind11 might try to work in all scenarios, nanobind is more opinionated about the code it works with.
    * Not sure how interoperable they are, if you pass a type bound with PyBind11, not sure what happens if you pass it to nanobind.
    * Larry: it's minimal C++ version is higher than a lot of our projects need to support for VFX Platform reasons, so off the table for now for another year or two (requires C++ 17). Larry: we still have to support C++ 14, we're close but not there yet for my projects. JC: need to weigh the pros and cons, Pybind11 works well for existing projects, but nanobind could be good for a new project. nanobind doesn't have the full feature set of Pybind11.
    * Larry: a lot of our Python consider having Python bindings as a core feature of the project, so adjusting the API to be Python friendly is reasonable. Was reading the list earlier today, most of what they dropped are edge cases we don't need to use. It is a promising project, and in a year we may be in a position to use it. Something to keep an eye on.
    * JC: it's much closer to Pybind11 than it was a year ago, was able to add new features without adding a ton of complexity.
    * JC: Pybind11 has local module bindings, can bind a class local to the module. We had that case in OTIO, in Katana they had their own bindings to iMath, and OTIO did the same, was causing a clash, Pybind11 can create local module bindings to avoid this situation. nanobind dropped this functionality, and has no plans to add it, so that could be a problem for us, DCCs sometimes share with libraries which can clash.
    * Larry: also you can't embed a Python interpreter in an app? JC: yes, I believe so. Larry: they restricted to only adding Python libraries to the library, not embedding a Python interpreter. JC: yes, tried to stick to the "nano" part of nanobind.
