---
title: 2024-04-24
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   24 April 2024

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Jeff Bradley, Dreamworks
* Ibrahim Sani Kache, Dreamworks
* *John Mertic, Linux Foundation*
* *Christina Tempelaar-Lietz, ILM*
* *Aloys Baillet, NVIDIA*
* *Jean-Christophe Morin, Rez*
* *Andrew Grimberg, LF Release*
* *Ryan Bottriell, ILM*
* *Stephen Mackenzie, Rez*

## Apologies

* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks / OIIO
* Mike Rochefort, Skydance Animation

## New items

Abbreviated meeting due to attendance. We discussed the following issue:

Rest of agenda deferred to next meeting.

* Jeff: Noticing issue with additional symbols in Qt 6 bundled with latest Maya and Houdini, different symbols. Also cannot build on Rocky 9 with Qt 6. Using rez, enforce an order so Maya / Houdini provided libraries "win", but don't really want to depend on someone else's compiled Qt. Ibrahim has been talking to Qt company and Autodesk. Ibrahim: first time saw this with Houdini, something to enable thumbnail feature in Houdini. Only way to fix it was to give a patch to what they used to their internal Qt so Dreamworks can apply it to their own internal build, or force SideFX build of Qt in the environment. Solution they are going with right now. But can't have two Qts in the address space since Houdini doesn't hide Qt symbols. If their own tools are run inside Houdini bringing in their own Qt version, then Houdini complains. The other way around of having their own software depend on the SideFX Qt, then it's OK. A workable workflow for now, but hard to support. Jeff: some studios may build their own plugins against the libraries provided by Maya or Houdini? Easier to make it work? But Dreamworks has so much external software, it's useful to have their own versions of Qt. Ibrahim: we discussed this in the FX dept, because it's not just Houdini, it's also Maya, so it affects other teams. JF: this is adding to the API, right? Jeff: if other studios have encountered this, do we want to have some kind of unified voice on that topic. Can we get a patch repo so we can all be on the same version. JF: there's also the issue of open source vs paid Qt. Ibrahim: doubtful the vendors would do away with changes they made. But could there be a version without the changes? Or better would be to hide the symbols. JF: not sure you can have more than one instance of Qt in the same address space, even if symbols are hidden. Ibrahim: SideFX has an env variable that may be able to override the Houdini version of Qt. JF: is it the same functionality needed on Maya and SideFX? Ibrahim: for SideFX it's a "additional hotkey binding".

Maya: Maya 2024 / 2025

```
c++filt ZNSt15_exception_ptr13exception_ptr9_M_addrefEv
std::__exception_ptr::exception_ptr::_M_addref()
```

Houdini: started with Qt in Houdini 19.5:

```
c++filt _ZN22QGuiApplicationPrivate21sidefxPreKeyEventTypeEv
QGuiApplicationPrivate::sidefxPreKeyEventType()
```

JF: will look at aswf-docker builds for the Maya. Will start a page on the Wiki on this topic.

* Feedback from FMX
  * [Presentation Link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1gmj3xAv4AeWBQ_pXb1Yox4RSYtSwCwnasVBPNtxI1KU/edit?usp=sharing)
  * Presented on ASWF in general, with emphasis on infrastructure provided to projects
  * Feedback was positive, some enthusiastic Windows savvy devs asked details about how to contribute, hoping to see new faces on Slack
  * Several calls for simpler Windows builds, pre-built Windows binaries. We know this, but how can we help?
* [CI WG Confluence Space](https://wiki.aswf.io/display/CIWG)
* ASWF Docker 2024.1 Status
  * No recent progress, still "stuck" on some Conan/CMake integration issues
  * Updated to latest releases in meantime
* TAC vote to get rid of JIRA (no quorum yet)
  * Any objections here?
* Building dependencies from source / OIIO
  * Using Conan for that?
* Formalizing the CMake version for ASWF projects
  * Per project? Per VFX Platform Year?
* Codecov / Sonarcloud
  * Sonarcloud still worth it? Can we help projects not using it yet?
  * Should all projects be encouraged to use CodeCov?
  * Rez using CodeCov
* Stepsecurity.io vs glibc 2.17 / CentOS 7

## Follow Ups

* Any updates from GHA?
  * [GHA Usage Metrics](https://github.blog/changelog/2024-03-28-actions-usage-metrics-public-beta/)
* TAC / John still working on easing up some of the OpenSSF badging requirements
  * More graduated projects means more likely to have quorum at TAC meetings
* Great work by Cary / OpenEXR on meeting most OpenSSF requirements

## Tools and Links

* [LLVM 18.1 release](https://discourse.llvm.org/t/llvm-18-1-0-released/77448)
* ASCII Diagramming tools:
  * [Monodraw](https://monodraw.helftone.com/)
  * [Asciiflow](https://asciiflow.com/#/)
* Syntax aware diff tools
  * [difftastic](https://difftastic.wilfred.me.uk/)
  * [delta](https://github.com/dandavison/delta)
* [Static Analysis in gcc14](https://developers.redhat.com/articles/2024/04/03/improvements-static-analysis-gcc-14-compiler#try_it_out_)
* LLVM 17 available via `llvm-toolset` in RHEL 8.10/9.4
