---
title: 2024-09-11 
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   11 September 2024

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Andrew Grimberg, LF RelEng
* John Mertic, Linux Foundation
* Stephen Mackenzie, NVIDIA / Rez
* *Jeff Bradley, DreamWorks Animation*
* *Christina Tempelaar-Lietz, ILM*
* Ben Giles, Caligra
* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks / OSL / OIIO
* Larissa Fortuna, GitHub Actions
* Jean-Christphe Morin, Rez

## Apologies

*

## New items

* GitHub Actions Update
  * Special guest from GitHub : Larissa Fortuna
  * Support for custom images
    * Images with pre-loaded / pre-baked aswf-docker container images?
    * Or output VM images directly from aswf-docker project as alternative to containers?
  * Larissa: Product Manager at GitHub, working on Actions. Was told we would be interested in Custom Images. No NDA in place between ASWF and GitHub.
    * Custom Image feature allows you to build your own VM images on hosted runners. Not talking about Container images. Via Actions workflow files.
    * 3 kinds of outcomes with this alpha:
      * Customization: customize everything to goes on image
      * Security: ability to create a hardened image
      * Performance: pre-warmed environment with everything on there when your Actions start
    * Larry: is the advantage via a container is faster startup, so you don't have to download whole container?
      * Larissa: yes, correct. Also some issues with [container jobs](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/writing-workflows/choosing-where-your-workflow-runs/running-jobs-in-a-container). Are you using those?
    * JF: explains how aswf-docker works. Free runners need packages removed to make room for Docker Images
    * Larissa: could have a bare bone Ubuntu image, install Docker, and pull down aswf-docker image. For now no plan to support Rocky Linux as starting point of custom image, so still need to use container.
    * Larry: Windows base image would be very useful, our Windows builds take a long time, so would be useful to have a Windows base image.
    * Larissa: we only support building on top of a Windows "bare" base image. Larry: I've only interacted with Windows through the Actions. JC: without compilers will be tough. Installing MSVC can take ages. Larissa: yes, would need to install compilers, but would only need to do this once at image creation image. Larry: so custom image creation starts from bare windows? Larissa: yes, but have on roadmap to build on top of "custom" GHA Windows images.
    * Larry: could you turn this into separate workflows to work around timeouts? Larissa: you can build from bare bones right now and it won't time out. This is about building on top of "GHA" custom images, that's when we get timeouts.
  * JF: issue with CentOS 7 vs GHA runner, can pin back to version of runner / node.js still working on CentOS 7 glibc
    * Larry: we also have to lock down to older version of Actions, then we get security warnings about old Action versions
    * We know it's our fault we are stuck supporting CentOS 7, hopefully we can survive for new few months
  * JC: the issue is how Node.js was compiled, issue across GHA supported Actions. glibc version is really important, need to compile against "oldest possible" versions. GitHub using version of glibc "a bit too new".
  * JC: Can you use Custom images on free runners? Larrisa: no, will need to be run on "larger" (for pay) runners.
  * JC: how will versioning work? Will there be tags, `latest`? Larrissa: yes, based on a single integer for now, don't have support yet for patches, only major / minor. We also have a `latest` tag. When you create second runner that creates custom image, you can select which version of the image you want to be on, including `latest`. Or you can pin runner to specific version of the image.
  * JC: will there be a maximum size for the image? Larissa: limited to size on largest runner, 64 core / 2TB. But limited by runner size you are running on.
  * JF: is this based on Packer? Larissa: not based on Packer, replacing Packer with Workflow file. In background using Azure process to snapshot and generalize.
  * JF: will this support ARM? Larissa: support ARM on Linux, not Windows yet. Can based on top of base ARM image, or full image.
  * Larissa: if you are interested and want to be onboarded, can work with Andrew, add org name to onboard. Andrew: sure we can do that.
  * All: thanks Larissa!
  * JF: will still need aswf-docker containers since won't be getting Rocky 8 base images.
  * Andrew: Docker containers are a stack of layers, so can download incrementally.
  * JC: interesting they will support Windows. Could be interesting for Rez, for instance Powershell + modules.
  * Ben: more and more Microsoft stuff coming in GitHub

* aswf-docker 2024.1 release is done
  * [ChangeLog](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-docker/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#2024-09-02)
    * DSOs in lib64
    * OIIO / OSL reports it working (including aswftesting)
  * All Docker images and Conan packages released for 2024.1
  * Will start working on merging [PR 198](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-docker/pull/198) to update Python dependencies. Stephen: can rebase to top of tree. The Python stuff should have been updated to ranges that are sufficient. There's something with authentication failure as part of build failure, that could need to be debugged. Will need to fire up a Rocky VM. If we can solve auth issue, we should be good. User permissions fix didn't help. DM me which branch? JF: it's `master`.
  * Prep work for `ci-openrv` build container (Cedrik)
    * `expat` 2.5.0 Conan package (previously from Rocky 8 base image)
      * JC: CVEs against recent expat versions:
        * [CVE-2024-45492](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-45492)
        * [CVE-2024-45491](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-45491)
        * [CVE-2024-45490](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-45490)
        * At employer, we declare expat as ABI compliant, so should be fine to switch to a 2.6
    * Qt now builds QtWebEngine, QtMultimedia
    * [PR 207](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-docker/pull/207) in progress, will require more Qt6 work in OpenRV itself
  * Will start to work on 2025
    * 2025 Reference Platform updates (OneTBB)
    * Emphasis on image size

* OpenSSF Best Practices Office Hours
  * Led by Cary Philips of OpenEXR sharing experience of work done on OpenEXR to meet OpenSSF badging requirements
  * Monthly off cadence from TAC / CI WG meetings
    * [28 Aug 2024](https://tac.aswf.io/meetings/2024-08-28.html)
    * Next meeting 25 Sept 2024 at 13:00 PDT
  * If you are interested in what we discuss here, you'll be interested in this meeting
  * Adding SECURITY.md to every repo based on version from OpenEXR is a good first step
  * Getting every project to adopt signed source releases identified as a near term goal
    * [How users can verify signed releases](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/openexr/blob/main/SECURITY.md#signed-releases)
    * [Release signing process](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/openexr/blob/main/.github/workflows/release-sign.yml)
  * John: Cary has done a lot of leading work, if we can share these practices, start working on small chunks one at a time, work our way through it. Should help consistency across projects. The time for the meeting can be a challenge, not easy to find so may find a different slot. Runs into USD working group. JF: CI WG meeting has struggled with conflict with USD meeting as well. John: hard to hit a lot of timezones. We do record the calls, hopefully more can join.

* TAC revisiting Working Groups concept
  * [Evolving our working groups program #798](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/issues/798)
  * Should WGs producing artifacts really be projects?
  * What would the CI WG look like as a ASWF project? Would we get more participation / resources? Can we sustain the "overhead"?
  * Wait until Larry is back to discuss this.

## Follow Ups

* NuGet support in Artifactory for xStudio builds
  * [LF Helpdesk Ticket IT-27186](https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/desk/portal/2/IT-27196)
    * Andrew: we will be taking a look a this request. Have no issue with creating a NuGet repository, but we can't put anything that isn't open source.
* Recurring issues with growing size of aswf-docker build containers and very limited disk space on free GHA runners
  * Try to remove GUI debug tools in CUDA base image / build our own CUDA base image
  * Minimal base image without Clang, allow projects to install packages they need via Conan (size vs startup time)
* Enabling [CodeQL alerts in GitHub Actions](https://github.blog/changelog/2024-07-16-ai-powered-autofixes-for-historical-codeql-alerts-are-now-in-public-beta/)
  * GitHub asked if we are interested, we said yes, but haven't heard anything back.
  * JC does the same as [semgrep](https://semgrep.dev/): scan your code with a parser, applies a bunch of security rules, generates PRs based on findings. Can decide to apply or not.

## Tools and Links

* [FindBoost module removed from CMake](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/policy/CMP0167.html)
  * [OIIO fix](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenImageIO/commit/b3d10faaa7301534886721b2ca4f1da0e07d2353)
