---
title: 2024-05-22
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   22 May 2024

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Jeff Bradley, Dreamworks
* Ibrahim Sani Kache, Dreamworks
* Aloys Baillet, NVIDIA
* Andrew Grimberg, LF Release
* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks / OIIO
* Parmvir Dhillon

## Apologies

* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz, ILM

## New items

* CI WG presentation to TAC next week
  * What do we want to highlight as accomplishments
    * Continued support of aswf-docker project
    * GPU and large runners (OpenVDB to use GPU runners)
      * Andrew: haven't check recently, would need to pull usage reports, they break it down per job / who triggered it
      * Andrew: over last 90 days no GPU usage yet, all paid for usage is OpenVDB for larger builders (ubuntu 8 core, windows 8 core, some Mac)
      * Larry: OSL needs to start using GPU for its test suite. JF: OpenGL? Larry: CUDA and OptiX. No need for X server. Had hit roadblocks with runners set up for GL. OSL has a GPU test suite, but it's not part of the CI suite, and thus not testing an important part of functionality. OpenVDB may end up in a similar place, so can be shared discovery.
    * Forum for discussions about tooling
    * Coordinate with GHA team
      * More meetings? Andrew: they are interested on coming back in quarterly basis, gave them link to calendar. Nothing has been set as to next meeting. Hopefully they will let Andrew know when they will join
    * ReadTheDocs integration for all projects, one project left to send invite
  * What are the priorities for the upcoming year
    * Work with projects that need to integrate GPU testing
    * Window builds: Conan / Cmake
      * Are there any ASWF projects that use Conan in this way? Parmvir: Perhaps OpenFX?
      * Windows support in aswf-docker
  * Leadership
    * Co-chair?
* Feedback from FMX
  * [Presentation Link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1gmj3xAv4AeWBQ_pXb1Yox4RSYtSwCwnasVBPNtxI1KU/edit?usp=sharing)
  * Presented on ASWF in general, with emphasis on infrastructure provided to projects
  * Feedback was positive, some enthusiastic Windows savvy devs asked details about how to contribute, hoping to see new faces on Slack
  * Several calls for simpler Windows builds, pre-built Windows binaries. We know this, but how can we help?
* [CI WG Confluence Space](https://wiki.aswf.io/display/CIWG)
* Codecov / Sonarcloud
  * Sonarcloud still worth it? Can we help projects not using it yet?
    * Larry: continue to. Andrew: no cost associated.
  * Should all projects be encouraged to use CodeCov?
  * Rez using CodeCov
    * Andrew: available before Sonarcloud. On again / off again free tier.
    * Larry: code coverage in SonarCloud is only a small portion of the value add. But we mostly use it for the static analysis.
  * John: list of static analysis tools used by ASWF projects?
    * candidate page on Wiki
    * OIIO and OSL use Sonarcloud. Larry: there's a separate Actions workflow for that
    * OpenEXR as well, somewhat of a simpler project, may be simpler to figure out
    * Example links to projects using those tools
* ASWF Docker 2024.1 Status
  * No recent progress, still "stuck" on some Conan/CMake integration issues
  * Updated to latest releases in meantime
  * Draft 2025 platform released
* TAC vote to get rid of JIRA (no quorum yet)
  * Any objections here?
  * Andrew: Stand alone instance, cost associated. LF in process of trying to migrating to Atlassian cloud, so one less to migrate. Currently running the "datacenter" version, there was a CVE against the "server" edition we could not update to.
* Building dependencies from source / OIIO / ORI
  * Users struggling to build OpenRV / X-Studio, especially on Windows
  * Using CMake / Conan for that?
* Formalizing the CMake version for ASWF projects
  * Per project? Per VFX Platform Year?
  * Any value to being able to use the platform supplied version?

## Follow Ups

* Issues with Qt6 in Houdini / Maya (Jeff / Ibrahim)
  * Could be Qt5? No update yet, haven't reached out to Autodesk yet. For SideFX, they are not planning on fixing it to use the stock Qt. The symbol they added is needed to handle thumbnails. Workaround is to have Houdini load its own Qt libraries instead of studio build, seems to be working so far.
* Any updates from GHA?
  * [GHA Usage Metrics](https://github.blog/changelog/2024-03-28-actions-usage-metrics-public-beta/)
  * Andrew: upgraded our org to GitHub Enterprise account, which is supposed to be free for us, but not sure? Reached out to GitHub for clarification. Should allow us to bring in other projects that haven't joined the org (OTIO for instance). Allow us to bring those under the same Enterprise account and have centralized billing. They could gain benefits, they would need to configure for pay runners at the org level, but have those billed against ASWF org.
* TAC / John still working on easing up some of the OpenSSF badging requirements
  * More graduated projects means more likely to have quorum at TAC meetings
  * JF to follow up with John
* Great work by Cary / OpenEXR on meeting most OpenSSF requirements
  * Candidate for Wiki page

## Tools and Links

* [ABI compatibility testing with libabigail](https://developers.redhat.com/articles/2024/05/20/application-binary-interface-compatibility-testing-libabigail)
* [abi-compliance-checker](https://github.com/lvc/abi-compliance-checker)
