---
title: 2024-02-28
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   28 February 2024

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* John Mertic, Linux Foundation
* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks / OIIO
* Christina Tempelaar-Lietz, ILM
* Aloys Baillet, NVIDIA
* Andrew Grimberg, LF Release Engineering
* Stephen Mackenzie, Rez
* Ibrahim Sani Kache, Dreamworks
* Mike Rochefort, Skydance Animation

## Apologies

## New items

* aswf-docker 2024 update
  * 2024.0 released
    * Larry: worked out of the box for OIIO, OSL had some issues that need to be looked at, setting up some of the dependencies, but no time last week to track it down. For OIIO simple cut-n-paste between talks at Open Source Forum did the trick
  * Last hurdle was getting rid of dozens of Conan package dependencies in Qt/PySide recipes, instead picking them up from the base image (CI builds won't just pick up and build packages from Conan Index the way local builds do)
  * Conan packages pushed to Artifactory, Docker containers pushed to Docker Hub
  * You can't create a GitHub release from a (PR) branch, makes testing tricky, so... requested self approval privileges
  * Transitioning blosc, partio, ptex and opensubdiv to Conan-only packages may bring issues to projects consuming these (CMake modules, lib vs lib64 installation): affects OSL builds
  * No longer possible to run any of the builds on default GHA builders, hopefully didn't use up too many paid minutes (14GB disk space on free builders being the main problem)
    * Do we need to do anything to gain access to [updated free Linux runners with 4 cores / 150GB disk](https://github.blog/2024-01-17-github-hosted-runners-double-the-power-for-open-source/)
    * Andy: this should work with ubuntu-latest
  * Haven't been able to maintain ability to build previous years in parallel, would need to be done off a branch to release updates to previous years (would need separate Conan packages for qt5 vs qt6)
  * Christina: will get OpenEXR / Imath CI set up likely next week
* Work starting on 2024.1
  * Rework Conan package recipes to use [CMakeToolchain](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s0q6s5XzIrA) which results in almost identical recipes for simple packages
  * Forcing all installs to `lib64` instead of `lib` (Conan won't do that by default, since distribution-specific)
  * Pushing CMake updates to upstream projects where possible, for instance for [partio](https://github.com/wdas/partio/pull/105)
  * oiio-specific build container
  * looking more closely at project configure script output to address missing dependencies
    * libdeflate in base image for OpenEXR
    * Becoming a required dependency
    * OK to have as base image install? Larry: OpenEXR will download and build it if it can't find it. If a bunch of projects will use it, may want it in the base projects. But it's a short dependency.
    * Larry: could be in base image
  * Python 3.11.8 / MaterialX 1.38.9 / IMath 3.1.11
  * Current guidance for building OIIO vs OCIO without circular dependency?
    * OCIO has been able to build without OIIO first, uses OpenEXR instead, only a couple of CLI utilities use OIIO which few people use. But likely no one cares, will fallback to only using OpenEXR. So build OCIO first with options not to look for OIIO.
  * Mike: in dot releases, what is considered a valid bump? Patch releases?
    * JF: anything in the VFX Platform updated to latest allowed by the platform. Anything outside VFX Platform is up for interpretation.
    * JF: make sure not to break ABI
    * Mike: platform components?
    * JF: nvidia/cuda:rocky8 image is outside our control
  * Could use help with updating the Python dependencies
    * Stephen: tag me on an issue so I can take a look
    * Andy: can we use the `help-wanted` tag?
    * Larry: there is a difference between `help-wanted` and `good first issue` tags. CLOtributor does use both. Larry: we just have to restructure, assume you need both tags if we want to preserve the `good first issue` tag. John: if you tag it `help-wanted` but assign it, it won't show up. JF: would aswf-docker show up in CLOtributor by virtue of membership in ASWF org? John: may need to add it specifically to link the aswf-docker to the CI working group.
    * John: CLOtributor is a tool to help developers to identify areas where they can contributor to projects. Came out of CNCF, because of the broad reach of CNCF projects, it has become a way to drive interest. We have a couple of other LF foundations using it. Pulls from repos in the Landscape entry, will pull open issues with the `help wanted` tag. Can add additional labels which can help with filtering (difficulty level for instance). Will also pull language from Git repo. Not a lot of work to do for projects other than tag issues. We've already seen a couple of contributions this way. Rez had a couple of issues. Can be a basis tool for Dev Days, a nice way to collect those issues. Steven: helps TSC to be better maintainers. John: helps to look through backlog, do we have the skillset, don't need to be an expert in the subject domain to contribute to a project, good way to onboard new contributors or get drive-by contributions. Early returns have been good. 77 issues tagged across 5 ASWF projects.
  * Anyone need additional components for their projects?
    * No good way to know that something isn't required anymore.
* SonarCloud issues
  * Need to update `sonar-scanner` CLI to remove deprecated `-Dsonar.login` option
  * SONAR_TOKEN env var is sufficient, but...
  * org-level secrets not accessible in PR context, so can be tricky to debug CI workflows
  * similar issue to not being able to create an aswf-docker release from a PR branch
  * Issues created against Imath / OpenEXR which have this issue (looks like there are PRs addressing this)
* Code Signing in IMath using sigstore
  * [PR 369](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/Imath/pull/369)
  * Adds a release-sign.yml GHA workflow which looks straightforward
  * Updates to project `SECURITY.md` outlining use of GitHub vulnerability reporting infrastructure instead of adhoc email alias
  * Helps to tick off some more boxes for CII badge, other projects may be able to adopt some of this work (IMath is lucky to be able to say it has no external dependencies!)
  * [SLSA / Supply-chain Levels for Software Artifacts](https://slsa.dev/) as an alternative to [sigstore](https://www.sigstore.dev/)
  * Larry: any reason to be want to use something else than Sigstore. Andy: LF is a project of the OpenSSF part of LF, "all in the family". Larry: I was pleasingly surprised to see that it's not that complicated. Andy: only place where it doesn't work is publishing Java artifacts to Maven Central. LF networking umbrella is all Java publishing to Maven Central.

## Follow Ups

* Thank you Andy for organizing chat with GHA team
  * Started the year on a bang!
  * Andy: had monthly meeting with them last week, they are willing to do this quarterly if we want, put the ball in our court. Do we want a dedicated meeting once a month, or join us at this meeting.
  * JF: seems like a worthwhile use of our time.
  * Andy: have been pleased with interactions with GitHub as a whole
* OpenSFF Badging Requirements
  * TAC discussions on the requirement for Gold level for (new) projects to reach Accepted Stage (John)
    * [ASWF Project badge analysis](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1bEacUNFizeT8QtfsvqiRNNgvty8_tweHjassHko6OhQ/edit?usp=sharing)
    * Use a scoring system to determine what are the most problematic requirements, "security review" seems one of the sticking points. Maybe replace a security review with a threat model analysis. OSTF (OpenSource Technology Forum) could help with this.
    * Larry: could be helpful to break into two pieces. If we can articulate the threat model in a way we understand, projects could repair things before a security audit. But we don't know where to start. John: we could address pieces of the thread model, then go back and do a review.
    * Larry: send us home with homework!
    * Test suite coverage may be also backed out of, we can't find an authoritative tool, but most of the projects have met the "spirit" of the requirement. Hard to meet hardware requirements to which we don't have access, the community could provide some results, or set up hardware in a lab but that's difficult. Until we get a clear cut authoritative answer we'll back out of it.
    * Cryptographically signed releases: IMath has proved it can be done.
    * Reproducible builds: that one is tricky, we can back out of it until we better define it. Larry: we went around in circles as to what it's asking for. As long as a project supplies only source artifacts, we should be fine. But some of the projects want to project binary artifacts (OpenRV for instance), so we will find ourselves in that boat fairly soon. Larry: a reprieve here may make sense.
    * Secure Design Principles may also get backed out, more a documentation requirement.
    * Accessibility best practices may be N/A
    * GHA doesn't put hardening headers, but it doesn't matter as much for static sites. We have an upstream bug with GitHub
    * Hardening mechanisms might be backed out, depends on the threat model. OpenEXR and MaterialX have done it. Some projects don't know how to answer that question.
    * TLS: projects mostly don't deal with it
    * Documented roadmap: usually done once a year by projects at SIGGRAPH
    * Identifying external components: mostly met
    * We're probably end up around 10 requirements excluded / pushed back.
    * OpenEXR only has 8 unmet, and that's a good place to go with "boxing out" requirements.
    * John: there's a link in the TAC repo
    * Goal is to go to the TAC next wednesday with recommendation as to what to exclude, should help move things forward.
* Anyone started using free M1 runners?
  * Larry: OIIO and OSL are using those, using them successfully, getting off the paid ones. Was rationing it, only on specific PRs. Now doing Mac builds on every PR.

## Tools and Links

* [State of C++ Package Managers Article](https://moderncppdevops.com/pkg-mngr-roundup/)
* [Python Packaging in Rust](https://astral.sh/blog/uv)
* [Cross compiling macOS code on Linux](https://github.com/shepherdjerred/macos-cross-compiler)
* [Signing macOS code on Linux](https://gregoryszorc.com/docs/apple-codesign/stable/)

