---
title: 2025-11-05
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   05 November 2025

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Larry Gritz, OSL / OIIO
* Andrew Grimberg, LF RelEng
* Eric Salituro

## Apologies

*

## New items

* aswf-docker updated releases
  * 2024.4 / 2025.3 / 2026.1
  * 2026.1 includes official OCIO 2.5.0 and OpenEXR 3.4.2 for VFX Platform 2026
  * 2026.2 release awaits OpenVDB 13.x for feature complete 2026 VFX Platform -> looks like it just released 2 days ago?
  * Addressed issues from SIGGRAPH releases
    * LLVM again includes compiler-rt used by some projects for ASAN
    * OpenVDB now builds Ax and utilities to force inclusion of dependencies (glfw, gtest)
    * Fixed dependency management for OCIO / OIIO / rawtoaces (issues with libraw from base image vs updated version)
  * OIIO update to 3.1.x in 2025.3 broke OSL GPU test suite but flagged an integration issue
    * How to manage non VFX Platform package versions
    * Hard (impossible?) to test all the ways in which images are used in various project CIs
  * Some success building Linux containers on Windows (Eric)
    * Mostly "just worked", including Docker BuildKit and cache volumes
    * Beware of git handling of CR/LF line termination and heredocs in Bash scripts!
    * Encouraging first steps towards building actual Windows containers
    * Preference would be to convert Bash scripts to Python, rather than adding Bash on Windows. Larry: tend to use Bash everywhere, including Windows. Bash scripts seem to work fine on Windows, sometimes need separate scripts to set up dependencies, rather than clutter a script with if/else. But most scripts seem to work identically.

* Larger Runner Budget
  * OpenVDB ran out of funds towards end of October for their release push
  * We seem to be eating through funds faster than before
    * Andrew: GitHub billed us on Oct 30th instead of 31st, at $1500
    * Currently can allow up to $3K
    * OpenVDB burned through $1500 in a day! At least that's what it looks like.
    * Andrew: had to raise the cap until it kicked over to November on Saturday.
    * Larry: thinking about other projects, maybe a few more projects, maybe a bit of testing, but wouldn't expect this much consumption.
    * Andrew: haven't been able to dig into it yet.
  * Which projects are using them?
    * aswf-docker : 8 core / 300GB for releases (need the disk space)
    * OSL : GPU runner for OptiX
    * OpenVDB : 8 core / 32GB for test runs (need larger memory)
    * Any others?
  * Do we need to ask the board for budget in
  * Dashboard / granular reporting?
    * Larry: do we get a breakdown? Andrew: can pull down Actions usage, but site that would break it down isn't working properly. Larry: we have a few projects using the larger runners, so a project only using a bit shouldn't waste time trying to save. We started using GPU runners a few months ago for OSL, but not sure how much money that represents? If that's a lot, can cut back, but don't want to bother if it doesn't matter.
    * Andrew: not generally paying attention to what project is using how much, only the monthly cap. Got 75% warning on Wednesday last week, 90% on Thursday, 100% on Friday. Then we had no more capacity on the credit card, which is the biggest issue. Getting that increased is difficult.
    * Andrew: in Enterprise, can set cost centers per cost center or per repo spending limits, it is possible to allocate budget per project if we wanted to go that way. Larry: want to make sure a project isn't starving the others. JF: but don't want to throttle a project if other projects are mostly "idle" that month.
    * Larry: when I set up OSL setup for GPU runners, was trying to be extra frugal by only having a single job, we ran into problem this week where a container switch from 2025.3 to 2025.4, build broke, since we weren't testing against multiple dependencies. A bug affected only one dependency, could have avoided that if we had more build combinations. But that doubles the runner, but does it matter at all? If would do more if it wasn't a big deal.
    * Andrew: can get breakdown by project, OpenVDB ate up $2800 last month. OSL is not showing up as a major user, not even in the top 5! Top 5 by "gross amount use":
      * OpenVDB $2800 billed
      * $200 for all others
      * aswf-docker release seems to be "noise"
    * Since Nov 1st:
      * $500 for OpenVDB (finish their release)
      * $60 for OSL (with several GPU runs, so not typical)
    * [Usage Report Web Page](https://austenstone.github.io/github-actions-usage-report/)
  * Andrew: trying to transition from Credit Card to Invoice so we can more easily increase.
    * That would work better.

* ASWF CI Best Practices Document
  * Wiki article? Something in TAC repo? wg-ci repo?
    * Lowest friction way (JF?)
    * Larry: doing edits in TAC repo, will make a PR that sets up a directory where this can live, with a skeleton.
    * Had added a code review best practices to OIIO, had talked about transferring it over. Will see it with that, and some blank files. Will give some bullet points, and will submit as a PR. Hopefully other PRs can come to flesh it out.
  * Eric: can Copilot help? Andrew: use GPT-5 for documentation, available with Copilot Premium. But for coding use Claude Sonnet, GPT-5 produces rather bad code. Eric: I've had better luck with Cursor. Larry: they seem to be trying to leapfrog each other. A couple of months ago someone said Claude was much better, but recently said the others had caught up. Andrew: Copilot gives access to models from multiple vendors. Larry: is there LF guidance on these practices, what's OK to use? Andrew: a lot is still up in the air. Internally we use Copilot internally, other tools such as Cursor, Claude Code, a lot of development pushed with AI. Using Copilot on all PRs for code review. Copilot code reviews tend to be quite good, better than Code Rabbit, generally accurate and actionable. I like Copilot for code review. Larry: do you just accept suggestions if they look OK? Andrew: biggest issue is that it doesn't DCO correctly if you click through the UI, especially if your primary email is one thing and DCO and another. So may not pass DCO, we raised this up to the Copilot folks. So may not pass CI DCO check. I'm using this on the side for my own development, I can use my local setup before it goes back up to the PR. I sign all my commits, but Copilot can't sign them as me, but it can DCO them as me... Personally if you are taking in code generated by an AI, the commit message should have a "co-authored by" line, Claude Code does it, Copilot does it as well, but not in other IDEs. Larry: people at LF aren't concerned by implications of DCO / co-authored by ML? Andrew: Linux kernel will not accept AI contributions at all, too many grey areas. If anyone even proposes changes that "stink" of AI, they would be barred from contributing. Kernel community tends to be more conservative, both technically and legally. The DCO exists because of them, although they don't use a CLA. Up to the projects to have a level of acceptance. GitHub trying to provide us more and more "free" Copilot, it is trained on a lot of open source, but is the license compatible? Larry: I thought a year ago that Copilot was going to add safeguards? Andrew: there are some options, but they are buried. I looked over the options, if you turn them on, you may end up with a lot more code that may not be "best practices", a smaller corpus of data will be used to train the model. Larry: behind the scenes, as it makes the suggestions, it may be trying to not verbatim copy? Morally I'm concerned less about what it saw during training, but more about verbatim copying. Andrew: whatever it produces would have been produced by "some human". The code is very close to what I would have produced myself. Larry: when I see the suggestions, I have a pretty easy time spotting what I would have written (saves me a bunch of typing), vs "where is this coming from". But less clear when doing a code review for someone else. Andrew: when it's producing code, I would have produced something similar, I have to expect it would be doing the same for someone else proposing changes. I may be more critical when reviewing someone else's code rather than AI? Larry: anytime someone else is submitting code, they may have copy-pasted from somewhere they shouldn't. So we accept that risk, don't want to be more risk intolerant than that baseline.
  * JF: ASWF should have a base policy, that projects can then override. Larry: that needs to go to the TAC.
  * What should it cover? Free form ideation session
  * Leverage the knowledge from various projects
    * Larry: should be chipped in by various projects leaders. We don't want to dictate.
    * But doesn't exist now, there isn't a skeleton we can add to where people can iterate on.
    * Sometimes things wiz by in wg-ci chat, don't want it to get lost
  * Any volunteers?

* GitHub notifications in Slack Channels
  * Should every project have GitHub notifications routed to Slack channels?
  * Don't believe that would affect costs for our Pro instance
  * Rez, OTIO have them
  * OCIO used to have it in their own Slack
  * I personally give it a glance and you can always mute / unsubscribe?

* Container images for ML WG
  * Just a thought, would that be of any interest?
  * Moves too fast? Containers too large?
  * Could be scripts on top of aswf-docker image which already contains CUDA pre-requisites?

## Follow Ups

* Adding Imath separately from OpenEXR in VFX Reference Platform
  * Agreement in principle, remains to be done

* PyPI Organization for aswf
  * More project joined (7 so far)
    * Need to get OCIO in there
    * Need to follow up on remaining ASFW projects
    * OTIO just reached out to me and getting process started

* Enterprise Level access to CoPilot
  * Needs to be communicated to project maintainers (TAC meeting?)
  * Andrew: yes, with a caution, had a discussion today with someone at GitHub. We may have to change the way it was set up. We don't have anyone taking us up yet, so a good time to change. But we need to know who those people are, so we can roll it out to individuals. Need a list of names and GitHub handles. They have to be a maintainer of a LF project, and have to use it. Don't know what is the token count, Enterprise Level is being comped back, so free to the projects, and it's a large amount of tokens using premium models. Last month I consumed only 25% of my tokens, one engineer managed to exhaust their tokens through heavy development.
  * Andrew: need a LF ticket. Not the same as the open source Copilot "comp", much higher limits, and access to higher end features. It is definitely better than what GitHub is providing to open source maintainers. [Ticket type](https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/desk/portal/2/create/1275)
  * Have to select which org is paying for your Copilot, which is how GitHub solved the "Copilot paid from multiple org" issue.
  * Larry: I'll go ahead and fill that out.
  * Summary would be "Copilot Enterprise Access", AcademySoftwareFoundary as the org, then list the repos you are a maintainer of.
  * Andrew: [GitHub Spec Kit](https://developer.microsoft.com/blog/spec-driven-development-spec-kit) reminds me of waterfall development, with TDD and Agile thrown in. I call it "Rapids development", fast and bumpy. Also Open Spec, may be better for "brown field" development. But Spec Kit works well, with all major coding agents, have been using it with GitHub CLI.

* Pinning yum repositories to main Rocky Linux repo and EPEL / disabling mirrors
  * Not done yet, created [aswf-docker issue #299](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-docker/issues/299)

## Tools and Links

* [Watch out for pull_request_target in GitHub Actions](https://ptrpa.ws/nixpkgs-actions-abuse)
* [Octobox to manage GitHub Notifications](https://octobox.io/)
* [GitHub Immutable Releases](https://github.blog/changelog/2025-10-28-immutable-releases-are-now-generally-available/)
