---
title: 2025-01-29
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   04 December 2024

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Jean-Christophe Morin, Rez
* Stephen Mackenzie, Rez
* Jeff Bradley, DreamWorks
* Jonathan Swartz, NVIDIA Corporation
* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks / OSL / OIIO

## Apologies

*

## New items

* Welcome to 2025!

* 2025 aswf-docker images
  * Progress stalled again: issues getting a consistent Qt 6.5.3 build due to mix of Ninja versions and incomplete build dependencies in vendored Chromium version.
  * 6.5.4 just released as open source on 2025-01-10, hopefully resolves these issues
  * Hoping that's the last major hurdle (famous last words)
  * NVIDIA provided latest OptiX download link, working on a GitHub repo
  * Clearly missed "2025 containers in 2025"
  * Recent discussion on how to build OIIO using the `ci-oiio` image shows that the project needs more "why / how" documentation (build scripts it includes aren't meant for general consumption)

* OpenVDB AWS CodeBuild setup for newer GPU access
  * Needs CodeBuild credentials and project setup
  * May still be in progress? [PR #1979](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/openvdb/pull/1979) [JIRA IT-23700](https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/desk/portal/2/IT-27300)
  * Jonathan: my efforts to get this to work. Have been following instructions, but still lacking credentials. Need to get traction on getting this set up. Ticket has been opened since October. Some time has gone by since this was lost set up. Blocking a fair amount of code that's dependant on CI runs to validate that code works.
  * Happy to support any way we can, but at a standstill.
  * JF: PR 1979 validates they are not visible? Jonathan: they are not.
  * IT-23700 is just a request to add credentials. That should be sufficient, there are GHA actions to setup the CodeBuild project once you have credentials.
  * JF to reach out to Andrew / John on Slack.
  * OCIO is already using CodeBuild, pre-dates GPUs in GHA (paid) runners.
  * Jonathan: happy to find someone inside NVIDIA in case there's a need for hardware donation.

* Update `upload-artifact` to v4 before 2025-01-30
  * [openvdb #1982](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/openvdb/issues/1982)
    * Jonathan: looks like it got fixed, issue is closed.
  * [OTIO #1819](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenTimelineIO/issues/1819)
    * Still open
  * [ASWF artwork #49](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/artwork/issues/49)
  * [OpenCue #1613](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenCue/issues/1613)
    * Still open

* Backing up GitHub
  * Not just repos, but everything else
  * Does LF have a solution in place?
  * Commercial offerings?
  * Larry: does GitHub allow an API way to backup / download. JF: there must be tools that can scrape everything accessible via API. Larry: project leaders could be trusted to have an authoritative repo. But there's all the other "stuff" around it. I subscribe to some projects and squirrel away all the emails, but it's not the same as having it in the accessible form on the website. Could be good to archive this on time to time.
  * JC: there may be open source tool, my company uses [a tool](https://rewind.com/products/backups/github/) to do this. GitHub has a good API, but that tool has a point and click solution, can restore the backup from the UI.
  * JC: threat actors will likely look for flaws in GHA workflows, researchers are scraping GitHub looking for flaws. GHA was not designed to be secure by default.
  * JF: will try to figure out pricing for all ASWF projects, present to the TAC if budget makes sense.
  * JC: LF might already do this by default, they already manage all these tools at org level.

* GHA Secrets Inheritance
  * Discussion in context of OIIO
  * `secrets: inherit` needed in reusable workflows to access org/repo level secrets
    * Larry: [that worked](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenImageIO/pull/4576), used info from JC. Only added the two specific secrets we needed are transferred from main to sub workflows.
  * [limit to only some secrets](https://github.com/woodruffw/zizmor/issues/360)
    * Static analysis tool for GHA
    * JC: using it at work, useful, not too noisy in recent releases.
    * JC: from one of the directors of TrailOfBits. [Copy-paste suggested workflows](https://woodruffw.github.io/zizmor/usage/#use-in-github-actions), and it works.
    * JF: worth evangelizing to other projects.
    * JF: SFF security badging doesn't mention much about tooling.
    * JC: creates "security findings" on repo in the Security tab. When you have the GitHub security stuff enabled, you will see these findings. Larry: do you need an account setup? JC: that's all you need.
    * JF: we should demonstrate what it looks like. JC: only have it on private repos. Can try enabling on aswf-docker project.
    * JC: Zizmor findings will show up under `Security -> Vulnerability Alerts -> COde Scanning`. These are private, so only people with admin access to the repo can see them.

## Follow Ups

* Custom images for larger GHA runners
  * Any updates?
  * [GHA Custom Images Alpha Documentation](./Custom_Images_Alpha_Documentation.pdf)
* For pay runner budget
* GitHub Actions / NodeJS / CentOS 7 feedback?
  * [Wiki Documentation](https://lf-aswf.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/CIWG/pages/11436353/GitHub#Issue-with-GitHub-Actions-and-CentOS-7-based-aswf-docker-containers)
  * Larry: at least a few projects have used it, seems to be "holding steady", until something else breaks. We're hoping that we can move away from CentOS 7 before the workaround breaks.
* Canary "meta project"
  * Larry: haven't really spent time thinking about it.
  * A change in OIIO, deleting a pre-processor symbol that didn't seem useful in the project, was in a public header file, and was used in USD, broke a USD build against main branch of OIIO. A good example of something that would have been detected by a "top of tree" build / an integration test project. Several times I've reported downstream breakage since my CI was failing. Want as much lead time as possible.
  * A "Canary Project" means that not everyone has to do it on their side.
  * May not be easy to do.
  * JF: could try to leverage ci-vfxall aswf-docker, building against latest
  * Larry: sometimes you can get caught by temporary changes, don't jump too fast on breakage.
  * Larry: in my projects, anything in public headers is assumed to hide all library symbols not meant to be public. Have a CI public, mark a commit as ABI standard we adhere to, run an ABI checker to make sure that no structures change. It is possible to write tests to check you aren't breaking. But this was a pre-processor symbol change.
  * JC: if there was a perfect tool, these problems wouldn't existing? [ABI checker](https://lvc.github.io/abi-compliance-checker/) is a great tool.
* [PyPI organizations](https://discuss.python.org/t/state-of-pypi-organizations/33764/25)
  * Is our request in the queue?
  * A single maintainer for 9000+ applications
  * JC: think it will happen. They will prioritize orgs that are ready to pay, no single company is baking PyPI, they rely on funding and donations. But it will happen, lots of pressure to make it happen. There's now a PyPI support specialist, they are doing great. OpenEXR was able to get the Imath project which was previously dead. Progress is being made.
  * Should ASWF become a paid organization? JC: don't know what is involved.
* [clang-tidy available in Linux GHA runners](https://github.com/actions/runner-images/blob/main/images/ubuntu/Ubuntu2404-Readme.md)
  * Also in aswf-docker images

## Tools and Links

* [pybind11-stubgen](https://github.com/sizmailov/pybind11-stubgen) for .pyi stub generation
  * Pyi files provide autocomplete function signatures and type information. Theyâ€™re required for autocompletion of compiled Python modules (Dhruv Govil)
  * Getting merged into OpenEXR
* [GHA jobs should protect against malicious branch names](https://hachyderm.io/@mjk/113603738948439509)
* [just](https://github.com/casey/just) A tool to manage small shell scripts / aliases
* [zizmor](https://github.com/woodruffw/zizmor): static analysis for GHA
* [Analysis of PyPI supply chain attack](https://blog.pypi.org/posts/2024-12-11-ultralytics-attack-analysis/)
  * [Statement from Comfy UI](https://blog.comfy.org/comfyui-statement-on-the-ultralytics-crypto-miner-situation/)
* [CoPilot for GitHub](https://github.com/features/copilot)
* [python-build-standalone](https://astral.sh/blog/python-build-standalone): CPython which doesn't depend on local libraries
* [PyPI project quarantining](https://blog.pypi.org/posts/2024-12-30-quarantine/)
* [osv-calibr](https://github.com/google/osv-scalibr) scanning tool from Google supports C++
* [The Fuzzing Book](https://www.fuzzingbook.org/) tutorial on fuzzing
* [Supply Chain Security in GHA workflows talk](https://academysoftwarefdn.slack.com/archives/C0169RX7MMK/p1737343330713099)
