---
title: 2025-05-21
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   21 May 2025

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Andrew Grimberg, Linux Foundation Release Engineering
* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks / OSL / OIIO
* Jean-Christope Morin / Rez
* Stephen Mackenzie, NVIDIA / Rez

## Apologies

*

## New items

* CI WG TAC presentation next week
  * Anything specific we want to highlight?
  * Challenge of participation
  * Areas of collaboration with ML / AI WG and progress
* 2025.1 aswf-docker
  * Should release soon
  * [PR](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-docker/pull/260)
  * Now includes oneTBB for actual VFX Platform 2025
    * Support for Conan Center Index-style to support radically different Conan recipes for major versions
  * 2GB savings per image by striping out CUDA GUI debugger and some large CUDA static libraries
  * Use new NVIDIA repo for OptiX headers
  * Some minor version updates
    * CMake 3.31.7 (was 3.31.6)
    * CUDA 12.6.3 (was 12.6.1)
    * oneTBB 2021.13.0 (was 2020_u3)
    * OpenImageIO 3.0.6.1 (was 3.0.5.0)
    * OpenShadingLanguage 1.14.5.1 (was 1.14.5.0)
    * Optix 9.0 headers (previous most recent was 8.1)
    * PartIO 1.19.0 (was 1.17.3)
    * USD 25.05 (was 25.02a.eae7e67)
  * For 2026 will remove LLVM from base image and only include for projects that use it
    * What about clang-format? Could this be installed separately?
    * May need a separate llvm-tools package?
    * More projects may also be building against clang
    * What about libc++? Larry: I think on Linux everyone is using libc++ since you have to accommodate things built with gcc, except maybe for test builds. Can't mix and match. JF: may not actually be building libc++. Larry: if you compile with clang and don't ask for libc++, you get gcc libstdc++, which is what you want to do.
    * JF: have to build llvm as static components. JC: had to deal with this at work. Some projects use LLVM libraries, can run into namespace conflicts. Easiest way to fix is to statically link against llvm libs.
* [2026 VFX Platform early release](https://vfxplatform.com/)
  * NumPy 2.0 may be best for Python 3.13
  * JC: if you compile everything with NumPy 2, you should be able to run at runtime with NumPy 1.24/1.25/1.26 (or maybe 1.25/1.26). There's an ABI trick, much easier to compile without having to use the oldest version available.
  * JC: [NumPy 2 ABI Build Time](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/dev/depending_on_numpy.html#build-time-dependency) [NumPy2 ABI Handling]( https://numpy.org/doc/stable/dev/depending_on_numpy.html#numpy-2-abi-handling)
* Semgrep for Rez
  * Alternative to SonarCloud. JC: better integration, can write custom rules, rules don't require writing code (they have a DSL). Rules are public, so you can figure out why something is generating a warning. SonarCloud rules are technically public.
  * Want ASWF org like PyPI
    * Created a ticket with LF RelEng to create Org
    * Andrew: Vanessa looking at how management would look across all the projects. Still in progress, should be soon.
  * JC: you can do scans from CI, or add project to platform and it will scan for you. We can't get Rez to work with SonarCloud.
  * Stephen: Semgrep is interesting and useful since it's particularly good with non-compiled languages. It understand semantics, not just regex based syntax. It can flag your usage of a particular python, for instance Python bindings that use PyBind vs Nanobind, Semgrep can find builtin usage that will be deprecated in future Python. It doesn't just detect a certain text string, but that a Python module was imported and used with a certain flag. It's very useful for more dynamic analysis. Didn't find it quite as useful in C++ context.
  * Stephen: not sure what other projects would find it useful? A lot have bindings, so maybe useful there? JC: Semgrep supports 15-20 languages, including C/C++. Trailofbits (security firm) have good rules for C/C++, tool is used by security community. When there are new vulnerabilities found, they will create new rules that would catch those. So could also be valuable for C/C++. Stephene: when I first used it years ago it wasn't that good for compiled languages, good to know it has advanced.
  * JC: can also be used for other things than security: deprecations, warn for something unsafe, can write an automatic suggestion, have a snippet to suggest a better alternative. Can also create a PR. We have this need in Rez, we have patterns we don't want to continue in the code base.
  * Stephen: used Semgrep in local only context, was using a local copy of the rules, not the whole repository. It is possible to use it in a offline / offgrid mode, not as user friendly, but can still get good CLI output, so that's useful. Makes a lot of sense in our context to use the service based offering.
* GitHub Container Registry
  * Should we push containers there as well as Docker Hub?
  * Performance advantages?
    * Andrew: yes will be faster.
    * Larry: Is it for general use? Andrew: yes, a bit less friendly than Docker Hub, no easy search, but a good registry for projects doing things on GitHub. Projects transitioning from Jenkins to GHA are going to publish to GHCR and Docker Hub as well. No reason not to publish to Docker Hub since it's free (but rate limited).
    * JF: should publish aswf-docker containers to both
    * Andrew: if you use GitHub attestation workflows, containers get attestation attached as well
* OpenVDB exploring a separate GitHub organization
  * Pros and cons?
  * Andrew: have a recent ticket open from Jonathan Swartz. Having multiple orgs isn't a major problem, but any of the Enterprise level premium runners share the same budget across all the orgs. There are one or two Enterprise runners that haven't transitioned up. We can set individual budgets between orgs, but not particularly easy to do, need to create Azure subscriptions. We're about to get discount pricing on what's being managed by GitHub for us. But won't apply to Azure subscriptions. It's easy if it's one pot of money, harder if separate.
  * JF: is it mostly syntactic sugaring? Andrew: we gain a lot of concurrency with GitHub Enterprise, if you are on GitHub org you have limited concurrency. If there are any private repositories they have fewer minutes. Minute count doesn't matter to much to our public repos, with Enteprise the concurrency is 500 instead of 20.
  * Andrew: Project still doesn't get admin access at org level, being maintained by LF RelEng.
  * JC: OTIO joined with a separate org.
  * Andrew: we have 7 orgs attached to our Enterprise
    * AcademySoftwareFoundation
    * ASWF (nothing in it / typo squat protection)
    * DPEL
    * OpenAssetIO
    * OpenTimelineIO
    * wg-rust
    * view
  * Andrew: no need to migrate repos. Enterprise level really helps here.
  * JC: we could use [custom repo properties](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/managing-organization-settings/managing-custom-properties-for-repositories-in-your-organization#searching-and-filtering-repositories-by-custom-properties-value)
* AI coding assistants for ASWF projects
  * Could we try to gather "best practices", recommendations, configuration files?
  * Collaboration with new ML/AI WG?
    * Larry: yes, this seems in scope with that group
    * No set meeting hour yet, we have a Slack channel.
    * Larry: will ask John to put a poll together for the time
  * JC: currently no standards, agents.md, Cursor, all are different. So if you set up something, may not work with someone's agentic workflow. Going through that at work. Models will make a difference, so rules you write may not work with a different model.
  * Stephen: I've been thinking of use case of agentic loop which runs the build, checks the errors, tries to fix them... Was imagining this for a Rez package ecosystem, build all the packages all the way to USD. May not go well the first few things, but could get better. CI docker containers for instance, "update this package to this".
  * JC: I've tried a lot of these, it tends to be pretty bad at compiling (all models), they really struggle. But not bad for Python, or the stuff that's really common where the model was trained on a lot of data. If put rules in place to put guardrails, and a test in the loop (an agent is just a while loop), every time you make a change, run the tests. This is supposed to be your end goal: if the build and test passes, the agent is on the right path.

## Follow Ups

* WG CI as an official ASWF project
  * No progress since last meeting
* New logo
  * Got PNG and SVG assets, will start deploying
* Custom images for larger GHA runners
  * JF: looks like this is generally available
* For pay runner budget
* PyPI Organization for aswf
  * [ASWF org on PyPI](https://pypi.org/org/aswf/)
  * aswf-docker, Rez, OpenEXR are in
  * submitted tickets against ASWF projects with PyPI packages
  * Requests are short lived, only 72 hours, may have to be redone if missed (OIIO expired)
  * Better workflow would be to raise a ticket after invite is sent (Andrew's personal email inbox is over subscribed)
  * JF to bring up during review
  * Andrew modified his PyPI account, it should now be going to corporate email, should now see it right away, no need for ticket

## Tools and Links

* [OpenSSF Best Practices Working Group](https://best.openssf.org/)
* [NVIDIA OptiX Headers Repo](https://github.com/NVIDIA/optix-dev)
* [JetBrains CLion C++ IDE free for non-commercial use](https://blog.jetbrains.com/clion/2025/05/clion-is-now-free-for-non-commercial-use/)
* [Consistency of GHA Runner performance results](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenImageIO/pull/4727#issuecomment-2868010652)
* [vet: validating dependencies against supply chain attacks](https://github.com/safedep/vet)
