---
title: 2025-02-26
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   26 February 2025

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks / OSL / OIIO
* Jeff Bradley, DreamWorks

## Apologies

*

## New items

* New logo!
  * "By popular vote" (highly scientific Slack poll) we're going with Option 2
  * Some concern about baking in "CI" in the logo if we end up renaming / becoming a project, but we can address at that point
  * Will update Wiki, ci-wg, aswf-docker repos
* 2025 aswf-docker images
  * Moved Qt to 6.5.4 (open source version released in January 2025)
  * Embedded Chromium now builds without Ninja build order issues
  * Moving on to PySide 6.5.4
* AOUSD folks at next meeting?
  * Michael Min wants to arrange AOUSD folks to join next meeting to discuss their CI plans / requirements
  * We can present what we have in place for ASWF projects
  * A great opportunity for cross pollination
* MaterialX bumping up CMake requirements to 3.26
  * Larry: make sure build containers have a new enough version, and air the fact that this is happening. Maybe that gives other projects the greenlight to move forward if they have been thinking about it. Anyone building MaterialX will need it, so other projects can upgrade as well. Several projects still at 3.12
  * aswf-docker 2022 is 3.22, 2023 is 3.27.2
  * RHEL / Rocky 8.10 / 9.5 has 3.26.5 (8.3 had 3.11.4, 8.5 had 3.20.2, 8.9 had 3.20.2 and 3.26.5) so RHEL has regular upgrades.
  * [Browsable Link for previous versions](https://dl.rockylinux.org/vault/rocky/8.9/AppStream/x86_64/os/Packages/c/)
  * [Browsable Link for current versions](https://dl.rockylinux.org/pub/rocky/8.10/AppStream/x86_64/os/Packages/c/)
  * How does this compare with other project requirements?
* Ubuntu 20.04 runner images going EOL on 2025-04-01
  * "Brownout" periods once a week during March to flag this through failed builds.
  * Larry: can be hard to distinguish from "normal" errors. Looking at my own workflows, updated ones that were pegged at 20.04 for "no good reason". Half of me wants to cheer pushing things forward, other half recognizes it can make it challenging to make sure we support older releases.
  * We should go through ASWF projects and open tickets / PRs for any build workflows which depend explicitly specify Ubuntu 20.04 images
  * Argument for "Build top of tree / latest everything", or "build in container", but don't expect things to just keep working
  * Larry: false sense of security from running on GHA runners, but also false sense of security to lean so hard on containers that you don't realize new versions are available. Some builds on native Ubuntu and some on ASWF containers, but can't cover all bases.
  * Larry: especially to the degree of some libraries wanting to not target just VFX / Animation / VFX Platform environment. It is important to build natively on native Ubuntu containers. Want to make sure the out of the box ubuntu experience doesn't break.
* [Docker Hub pull limits](https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/usage/)
  * Has been pulled back from initial announcement
  * Affects "unauthenticated pulls", so CI?
  * Unclear if it affects our "paid account"
  * Will we need to look at other container repos / host our own via Artifactory?
  * Podman requires explicit namespacing of the container repo, doesn't default to Docker Hub
  * TODO: follow up on what that means for us
  * TODO: encourage projects to fully specify where containers are pulled from
* [ARM Linux Public GHA Runners Available](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-github-hosted-runners/using-github-hosted-runners/about-github-hosted-runners#standard-github-hosted-runners-for-public-repositories)
  * How do we tell projects that these are available? Open tickets? Submit PRs?
  * Any projects using paid runners that could switch to free ones?
  * Could open issues against projects, like OpenEXR
  * Larry: will add to my projects. Not used in VFX, but helps make build reliable.
  * Larry: anything using SIMD intrinsics needs to not break

## Follow Ups

* OpenVDB AWS CodeBuild setup for newer GPU access
  * Has been escalated at LF, checked recently with John Mertic, but don't think it's been resolved yet
* Custom images for larger GHA runners
* For pay runner budget

## Tools and Links

* [Malicious VS Code extension relying on typo squatting](https://www.mend.io/blog/fake-vs-code-extension-on-npm-spreads-multi-stage-malware/)
  * Make sure your dependencies are spelt correctly!
* [Updated Firewall Policies for RedHat Image Pulls](https://access.redhat.com/articles/7084334)
* [100 most viewed software engineering talks of 2024](https://www.techtalksweekly.io/p/100-most-watched-software-engineering)
