---
title: 2025-07-16
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   16 July 2025

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Max Brim, Faceform
* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks / OSL / OIIO
* Stephen Mackenzie, NVIDIA / Rez

## Apologies

*

## New items

* CI WG TAC presentation
  * Happened on 2025-06-25
  * [Slide Deck](https://tac.aswf.io/meetings/2025-06-25/CI_WG_Annual_Review_2025-06-25.pdf)
  * Seemed to be well received
  * TAC voted status of [Long Term Working Group](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/tree/main/process/working_groups#long-term-working-group)
    * We officially get a TAC vote... although JF already did (no clear resolution of voting for TAC participants with multiple voting eligibility)
    * Larry: one person / one vote. But of course we typically don't have close votes.

* aswf-docker updates
  * Still working on 2026 early access release
  * Aiming for [August 12 SIGGRAPH VFX Platform BoF](https://s2025.conference-schedule.org/presentation/?id=bof_145&sess=sess393)
    * Tuesday has whole day track of BoFs oriented on studio technology
  * GitHub Container Registry support probably not in these releases
  * Qt 6.8.3 still bottleneck
    * Issue with INT128 vs -std=c++20/gnu20
      * Larry: just an issue when building or also affects downstream? JF: yes, I believe that is only required for building Qt itself, not downstream consumers.
    * Found patch for broken Chromium / Ninja dependencies
    * Work around for "too many open files" while building inside Docker
    * Reached 183.0 load average on a 96 core builder
    * Not easy to iterate when it takes an hour+ between runs, even on very large machine
  * [Using aswf-docker outside of ASWF CI](https://academysoftwarefdn.slack.com/archives/C0169RX7MMK/p1752588020050959)

* Dealing with "abandonned" PRs where submitter didn't tick "maintainers can modify"
  * [Example from OpenEXR](https://academysoftwarefdn.slack.com/archives/C0169RX7MMK/p1750357723350639)
  * Recreate PR, name original author?
  * Is this a frequent occurance?
  * IP issues? Larry: if they used a DCO / CLA, and submitted as a PR, they are agreeing to put in under the project license? Stephen: we had similar issue on Rez, they had signed DCO, we made the call that we would cherry pick the commit into a branch, fix the issue and merge. It's still "their commit". Larry: have done the same thing before, used the git command line flag to make them the author. Stephen: I may have squashed a typo fix, I think it can now add both authors to the commit. JF: worth getting LF clarification? Larry: if they do the DCO sign off and submit the PR, that's enough. The fact they didn't check the box isn't relevant. You get the same result if you merge the PR as is and fix it on top. I don't think it's a difference. If it arrived and they never did the sign off, can they assume they knew the rules of the project? Stephen: that would be a grey area, so may be best avoided. Similar problem as merging a PR that hasn't signed the DCO.
  * Larry: on other project, someone submits with DCO, gets caught by CLA bot, they decide not to sign that and abandon the PR. Can we make the a new PR with the code? Can we recreate it? OK for a 2 line change. Stephen: someone "this is what you want", but the CLA is not signed. There have been lawsuits about people having "seen" GPL code. Larry: there are de minimis changes that are too small to be copyrighted. If someone submits a large new feature without having signed CLA, that's best not touched. But someone who submits a large feature is likely to understand the rules of the project.
  * Larry: some people who won't sign a CLA may be by principle, but sometimes it will take too much effort to push through organization. So not worth it for a small fix. Stephen: sometimes it just never happens. Larry: can't ask people to burn political capital with legal team, don't want to burn the bridges. It should be simple to see a two line fix doesn't need a CLA, but...
  * Stephen: there should be a tick box for "I don't care about ownership of this small fix". Larry: I wish that GitHub offered this as a feature, maybe even at the account level, a statement "I don't care about IP of my PRs". JF: your employer could still claim your 2 line change while under their employment. Larry: that's the reason for the CLA. That's why I like CLAs, it's not to protect the project (which can roll back the change), but protecting the contributor. But if people don't know they need to do that, someone could sign individual CLAs when they really should have signed the corporate one...

* OSL build issues on Windows
  * [Issue with compiler flags, and Clang on Windows?](https://academysoftwarefdn.slack.com/archives/C0169RX7MMK/p1751238140280809)
  * Did this get resolved?
    * Lary: no, currently CI for OSL on Windows is broken. It worked until about 2 weeks ago, until they updated the Windows runners to a slightly newer version of Visual Studio. Had been doing the built against pre-built LLVM 18 binaries downloaded from LLVM project, new version of VS on runners rejects Clang earlier than 19, an issue with STL headers. Separate from that, the volunteers who build Windows binaries for LLVM switched their compiler flags from dynamic to static, and you can't mix and match. The OSL build and all other dependencies would have to switch to this other compilation flag which selects the C runtime library. Try to make some progress bit by bit, but kind of stuck for now. Can't find LLVM libraries, can seem to compile all dependencies...
    * Stephen: what LLVM version? Library: 18 will link fine, but gives a compilation error due to C++ standard libraries with new Visual Studio. Clang 19/20 are fine with these C++ headers, but are pre-built with wrong linkage. Docs for GitHub runners say they have LLVM 20 already installed, but while that appears to be true, it's only the LLVM command line tools, not the dev libraries. I filed an issue but it was closed as no fix. They just install the Chocolatey LLVM install, but that's not useful, it's just the CLI tools.
    * Stephen: do you just need a relatively standard LLVM 18/19/20 you need to be able to install? Larry: may be possible to make a workflow that builds from scratch (maybe use large runner), save the artifact... But another series of steps. Stephen: not making promises, but a couple of reasons NVIDIA has entertained putting up a LLVM build, Omniverse has a reason for it. May be able to push someone on this. Would be 18 first, 19 / 20 later. Larry: tell someone that if they do 18, it may not work with newer Visual Studio. Stephen: we're trying as much as possible to not be on Visual Studio, even on Windows, but lots of issues and caveats. Larry: not a bad strategy! Would do that, but CI wants to verify that other people (on VS) will be able to build. Stephen: LLVM still uses msbuild back end. MS makes packages with just the compiler toolset, but doesn't include msbuild, so you need entire MSVC package.
    * Larry: do modern Conan builds cache binaries? Stephen: yes. Larry: could pull a binary? Stephen: as long as the package ID generated by recipe matches one that's available. Conan knows that every setting is the same. As long as someone has built the same package ID on the remote you are pointing to. Larry: maybe that's my way out. Stephen: we use Conan to build Clang. Would be a conan center mirror. JF: llvm-core recipe on Conan Center Index only builds LLVM, not clang? Stephen: we had to separate clang-format. We probably forked from Conan Center. Clang build doesn't make it easy to do that. Larry: I need LLVM dev libraries, the Clang compiler, and libclang, we use that as our pre-processor. JF: on Linux have to build Clang libs as static. Stephen: we have an internal fork of the Clang conan library. It's not a complicated recipe. Creating a ASWF specific build should be possible. Larry: but there may not be "real" Conan builds? Stephen: not now. Our library supports 13-18 LLVM.

* Dedicated build infrastructure for ASWF projects
  * [Slack thread](Semgrep meetings are complete. We've gotten approval for a POC. Scheduling time with a solutions expert to start a POC on the rez project.)
  * Would it improve things, or change the set of issues?
  * Mostly a solved issue on Linux with aswf-docker containers, but not on Windows or Linux
  * More work to stand up infrastructure than build Windows containers?
  * Stephen: may also run into "end of the line" types of issues, everything is fine building 90% of what we build, but when you get to things where you need a Windows GPU runner, you'll need to stand on your head to make it work. I've watched an entire team try to do it. Of course difference between maintaining a few runners vs a whoe fleet. But obvious deficiencies in Windows to try to combine "headlines", "gpu attached" and "Windows/MSVC".
  * JF: running GPU workloads in aswf-docker Windows containers would not be part of the MVP! Stephen: maybe we could get a single GPU runner with Windows, maybe give it a spin, can we get somewhere with this, build the first 80% of projects.
  * JF: can you run your own runner against a public repo? Stephen: against a fork you can. JF: but then you lose access to the secrets. Stephen: maybe generate the pipeline differently based on the owner. So only jobs submitted by a specific user could go to a "bring your own runner". JF: can test that out on wg-ci repo!
  * JF: could be worth trying to develop a recipe for that. Stephen: reminds me of users who wanted to join their specific machine to the farm, but only for their own render.

* ASWF dependency parsing and BOM generation
  * [Slack Thread](https://academysoftwarefdn.slack.com/archives/C0169RX7MMK/p1751562775067939)
  * Projects generate ad hoc dependency finding output
    * Standardized? JSON output (but where to store it?)
  * [CMake Feature Summary](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/module/FeatureSummary.html)
  * [oiio-deps-parser](https://github.com/jfpanisset/oiio-deps-parser): a small vibe coded project to parse OIIO logs via GitHub API
    * Limitations of PyGitHub doesn't give access to full GitHub REST API
    * First stab at using uv
  * Larry: I'd rather print logs twice, color is pleasant for viewing logs. But happy to print the JSON afterwards. Also we can look at the CMake feature. The current format is not intended to be consummed or be stable.
  * Larry: would love to have an aggregate list across jobs. JF: also alerting on new versions.
  * JF: will try to leverage CMake functionality.
  * Stephen: have you looked at Conan experimental SBOM functionality? We have been interacting with JFrog team, it looks useful. The docs say it's [experimental](https://docs.conan.io/2/reference/tools/sbom.html)

* Custom images for larger GHA runners
  * Looks like this is generally available now
  * What would be workflow to request custom images? Could aswf-docker produce "pre baked" custom Rocky based images so we don't pay the price of downloading an "OS in a container"?

* Larry: what about Windows containers?


## Follow Ups

* Semgrep for Rez
  * Still work in progress
    * "Semgrep meetings are complete. We've gotten approval for a POC. Scheduling time with a solutions expert to start a POC on the rez project.""
  * Stephen: myself, someone on LF and someone at Semgrep trying to schedule a meeting, putting effort into it. Scheduling of meeting is tricky.
  * [Ticket IT-28190](https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/desk/portal/2/IT-28190)
* For pay runner budget
* PyPI Organization for aswf
  * More project joined (7 so far)
    * Need to get OCIO in there
    * Need to follow up on remaining ASFW projects

## Tools and Links

* [Potential Remote Code Execution in git clone --recurse](https://dgl.cx/2025/07/git-clone-submodule-cve-2025-48384)
  * Fixed in git 2.50.1
* [Zed debugger](https://zed.dev/blog/debugger)
  * Uses [DAP - Debugger Adapter Protocol](https://microsoft.github.io/debug-adapter-protocol/)
* [Mull](https://github.com/mull-project/mull): mutation based testing for C/C++
* [Hypothesis](https://hypothesis.readthedocs.io/en/latest/): property based testing library for Python
* [Visual Studio x64 code generation issue](https://developercommunity.visualstudio.com/t/Incorrect-x64-code-generation-with-VS-17/10917792)
* [GitHub PR review tools update for Files Changed](https://github.com/orgs/community/discussions/163932)