---
title: 2025-03-26
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   26 March 2025

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Andrew Grimberg, Linux Foundation Release Engineering
* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks / OSL / OIIO

## Apologies

*

## New items

* 2025 aswf-docker images
  * PySide 6.5.4 blocker resolved
    * No official Conan Center Index recipe since it is perceived to be "a Python Project" yet it has significant C++ component
      * Updated recipe provided by Foundry to Conan 2
    * 6.5.4 LTS free release didn't build out of the box (some missing includes), required patching
    * Issue with building LLVM as DSOs, PySide uses demangling library and you end up with multiple copies of symbols, had to build LLVM as static libraries
      * Larry: haven't run into this problem with OSL, maybe we build LLVM static?
      * Chris Kuhla trying to wean us off libclang, OSL only uses C pre-processor, looking for open source alternative. But we use LLVM a lot.
  * Now making progress on ASWF projects, currently working on OIIO (it needs a newer version of libjpeg-turbo than what's on EL 8)
    * JF to coordinate with Larry
  * Hoping to start releasing 2025 images soon
  * Current policy is "provide builds of all dependencies" and skip auto dependency download / build. Is this correct / desired? Does it provide a different (useful?) alternative to default GHA Ubuntu hosted runner builds?
    * Larry: sounds reasonable, but a lot of work. Trying to cover all those bases in CI, a build against what you would naturally find on RH8 / RH9, but also test against Ubuntu which is more modern, also have CI test which downloads top of tree of most dependencies. Also trying to build against old version of every dependency to make sure we don't break the minimums we claim to support.
  * Need to document "heuristic" for using:
    * Implicit system installed components (DTS for instance)
    * Explicit system installed components through Conan wrappers
      * Issue with projects which check dependencies
    * Newer version of system installed components due to project requirements
    * Need tools to automate config file management, especially for Conan wrappers
    * Short demo of how dependencies are handled and leveraging Conan profiles
* CI WG as an official ASWF Project
  * "developers developers developers developers" (or more generally resources)
    * need to meet all the ASWF project requirements (eat our own dogfood)
    * Larry: we already do a lot of the work of a project? JF: going through the official list of requirements. Larry: take "ticking the boxes" with a grain of salt, OIIO hasn't graduated yet. JF: you are probably right, we already meet a lot of requirements. Larry: 3/4 of requirements we probably already do, others are not applicable. There may be a list of a few left to do, let your resource constraints be the guide to how much work to put onto it.
    * JF: should I put together a "request for project" based on the form? Also look at the list of requirements. Larry: we don't have to pitch the project's existence and explain to the TAC, we've already done all of it. This endeavor is that we've been acting as a ASWF project, so have to add the bits of "legal niceties" to protect IP and make it official. Don't know that we need to approach as if this is a new project from the outside. Not sure how much formality there needs to be. Or may just change the designation, but should ask John. No one wants this to be a burden for the project, just call it what is is, and give it the benefits of a real project.
    * JF: will go through the exercise of "filling the form", and then will share that on Slack. Larry: intake form is pretty basic, issues of ownership are all inside the foundation already. We did it years ago.
    * Larry: need to think what we need from the foundation, there's just 3 of us on this call, need to find a way to leverage this becoming a new project to breathe new life into it. Renaming from CI WG may make people think this is a solve problem. May be able to re-scope and re-resource, maybe other projects need to contribute as well.
    * Where could we find new people to contribute and get involved?
      * Tools teams inside facilities?
      * Larry: there was a BoF for VFX Platform at SIGGRAPH Denver, WG CI kept getting named dropped, how much people depend on the containers and recipes. So maybe not just people in the member companies, but out there in the VFX world. Maybe people who don't know of a different way to contribute, could have expertise that's applicable, consider it a real project.
  * Any other code projects than aswf-docker?
  * Interesting from a legal perspective
    * an official ASWF / LF project has a legal framework
    * could support CLAs
    * although our artifacts may be "complicated" since they aggregate the work of many
    * Larry: all the more reason to turn it into an official project. JF: will force the issue of dealing with binary deliverables.
  * "Turning a hobby into a job"
    * What would a TSC look like?
* [GitHub Actions Compromise](https://semgrep.dev/blog/2025/popular-github-action-tj-actionschanged-files-is-compromised/)
  * [Article on identifying un-pinned GitHub Actions](https://alexwlchan.net/2025/github-actions-audit/)
  * Should we open issues against ASWF projects not pinning their actions?
  * Andrew: RelEng has a workflow to verify that GH Actions are pinned.
  * Larry: I do it in my projects.
  * Andrew: put a comment after the sha. Dependabot will bump those for you, it will update with the new SHA and the comment tag.
  * Larry: "score card" workflow checks this? Andrew: yes, will flag if you don't use them. JF: action item would be to open issues that don't use the "score card"
  * [Example of dependabot](https://github.com/lfit/releng-reusable-workflows/pull/294)
  * LF RelEng building an [org full of "micro actions"](https://github.com/lfreleng-actions)
  * Larry: would be good if handy actions from individual devs could be replaced with actions from security conscious organizations
  * [Composite actions to check for pinning](https://github.com/lfit/releng-reusable-workflows/tree/main/.github/actions/pinned-versions-action)
    * All actions will shift to the lfreng-actions org and eventually in the "Actions Store"
    * A lot of these are geared towards Gerrit projects (which can use GHA) but some are more GitHub centric
* Presentation to AOUSD
  * 15 minutes on April 9th at 13:00 PDT (off cadence from TAC / CI meetings)
  * Present what we do, resources ASWF has, building USD in aswf-docker
  * Run-through for TAC presentation on May 28th
* "Tools Matrix" for ASWF projects
  * Inventory of what ASWF projects are using in terms of tooling and versions
  * Small example: aswf-docker years, CMake versions...
  * Google Spreadsheet? Confluence Table? Markdown in wg-ci repo? (or single source of truth exporting it all)
  * Unlikely to be simple to completely automate, may require some manual data collection
  * Useful?
  * What data?
  * Larry: we helped get a project started with their CI years ago, the group provides the containers, but the CI workflows are cobbled together, copied from project to project. Probably room to find best practices / examples and turn them into reusable workflows. Maybe too specific to go into releng, but could be maintained in a central ASWF repo.
* Windows slow startup issues for Imath [Cary on Slack](https://academysoftwarefdn.slack.com/archives/C0169RX7MMK/p1741634492381849)
  * "Try to move away from Boost" (not sure if baked into Imath public API for Python bindings?)
  * Publish useful Windows Conan packages that projects can consume without the full weight of complete aswf-docker support for Windows?
  * Use faster `D:\` drive on GHA Windows hosted runners
  * [Article on Windows GHA performance](https://chadgolden.com/blog/github-actions-hosted-windows-runners-slower-than-expected-ci-and-you)
  * [Windows Dev Drive](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/dev-drive/): faster than NTFS filesystem for caching workloads

## Follow Ups

* Progress on PyPI Organizations
  * [State of PyPI Organizations](https://discuss.python.org/t/state-of-pypi-organizations/33764/28)
  * Confirmation that ASWF has registered a [PyPI organization](https://pypi.org/org/aswf/)
  * Need instructions from LF RelEng as to process to "move" package ownership and then open tickets with projects
    * JC Morin: "add LF Eng as owners and they should be able to do the rest"
    * Andrew: this should work, but this is first org on PyPI
    * JF: could use aswfdocker wheel as a prototype. TODO: JF to open LF ticket to start this process and figure it out. Then we can open tickets against individual repos.
* [OpenEXR releasing ARM Python Wheels](https://academysoftwarefdn.slack.com/archives/C0169RX7MMK/p1742505978532599)
  * Thanks for collaboration to help with this
* New logo
  * JF: No progress, but will update Wiki and repo
* OpenVDB AWS CodeBuild setup for newer GPU access
  * Has been escalated at LF, checked recently with John Mertic, but don't think it's been resolved yet
  * Andy: CodeBuild got set up, working through some connectivity issues, but testing done by Jonathan has some issues yet. OCIO still working fine, but they are using a container from 2020. JF: OCIO could be on (paid) GHA GPU instances, no specific GPU requirements.
  * Andy: newer GPUs supposed to become available this quarter on GitHub. No specific details other than "newer".
* Custom images for larger GHA runners
* For pay runner budget
* [Docker Hub pull limits](https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/usage/)
  * TODO: follow up on what that means for us
  * TODO: encourage projects to fully specify where containers are pulled from

## Tools and Links

* [presenterm](https://github.com/mfontanini/presenterm): Markdown presentations in terminal
* [GitLab SAML Authentication Issue](https://about.gitlab.com/releases/2025/03/12/patch-release-gitlab-17-9-2-released/)
  * Update to 17.9.2 if you are using SAML SSO
