---
title: 2025-10-08
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   08 October 2025

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Paul Molodowitch, NVIDIA
* Stephen Mackenzie, Rez / NVIDIA
* Andrew Grimberg, LF RelEng
* Eric Salituro
* Cary Phillips, ILM / OpenEXR
* Jean-Christophe Morin, Rez

## Apologies

* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks / OSL / OIIO

## New items

* Welcome Paul Molodowitch! AOUSD Build Interest Group Vice Chair
  * Any progress on a Conan recipe USD
    * Not yet
    * JF: aware of an Active Conan effort? Paul: NVIDIA uses Conan to build USD, but the recipe is adapted and ported over from previous system, heavily tied to internal build setup / infrastructure. Working on taking that stuff out, if we can do that in a reasonable amount of time, would like to be able to share that. But we won't stand in the way of someone else if someone comes up with a really good one.
    * Paul: one of the blind spots of Conan is the support for Python itself! They seem to skip past that, and just assume you have a Python in place, and ignore managing Python as a dependency.
  * [AOUSD Build Interest Group Charter](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/hubfs/AOUSD/Charters/25.06.23%20AOUSD%20Build%20Interest%20Group%20Charter%20-%20Approved.pdf)
  * Cross pollination with CI WG
  * aswfdocker project builds USD
  * Stephen: Jason at NVIDIA has permission to submit stuff to ASWF Conan recipe repo. Paul: so I won't get in trouble for submissions. Anything related to wg-ci Conan recipes.
  * Paul: Action item for BIG from Steering Committee is to set up some cloud renders for GitHub performance evaluations. Pixar had requested funding for physical machines, but makes more sense to do this in the cloud. How is maintenance of those CI recipes / Docker images / ..., who is responsible for that, who pays for it? How have we structured this?
    * GPU runners: GHA for pay, vs AWS CodeBuild
    * Paul: performance testing in cloud render can be tricky. We would use paid instances, was specing out stuff on AWS, was trying to figure out how to do this as a GHA runner. Only way would be to reserve the whole physical server to ensure performance, but would be very expensive. We want to "give it a shot and see how it works". Can also use for other general CI tasks for USD.
  * Still a lot of variations between numbers Pixar on local machines they control, target to beat is larger than you would think.
  * JF: custom images on GHA? Andrew: we haven't used that yet. Trying to find documentation. Andrew: custom images are stored on GitHub directly, instantiated the saw way as their runners, they have to be built in a very specific way, have to use their workflows. It does launch faster, but they are for pay. JF: and our images live on Docker HUb, we have a for pay account.
  * Paul: Steering Committee wants me to come back with numbers and estimates, anything you can send my way and are able to share in terms of billing info (including LF).
  * JF: AOUSD is a separate organization than ASWF, but affiliated with LF.
  * JC: For performance testing Iâ€™ve heard good things from [namespace.so](https://namespace.so/) and [cirrus-runners.app](https://cirrus-runners.app/) too.
  * JF: you can talk to Darrin Grant as treasurer. Andrew: Melissa ... is the LF project manager.

* CentOS / Rocky distribution server access
  * [Consider switching away from mirrors to main servers](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-docker/issues/299)
  * some mirror servers may not have as good an uptime as others, and if you are unlucky enough to hit one of those, dnf isn't very good at transparently backing off and trying another
  * RPM propagation issues can result in partial updates and missing dependencies (this seems to be more prevalent when updating kernel versions on bare metal instances)
  * JF: I may end up just doing it.

* Imath version in VFX Platform
  * Used to be bundled with OpenEXR
  * Split off to its own repo at 3.0 (VFX Platform 2021)
  * Versioned separately (fewer changes): latest is 3.2.x vs OpenEXR 3.4.x
  * Part of exposed ABI of OpenEXR, Alembic, OSL since its types are prefix with namespace `IMATH_NAMESPACE::` which changes per version
  * [Request in #vfx_reference_platform from Cary Phillips to add Imath to VFX Platform list](https://academysoftwarefdn.slack.com/archives/C017TA11X2S/p1759852042208899)
  * Cary: we posted our thoughts on Slack. JF: I will try to make it happen. Cary: I will leave it in your hands. Posted a comment in our install instructions, but you may not find it. Can make this a tricky issue, it's not new, but has arisen because the version changed this year, so anyone adopting the new 3.2.x Imath. You can combine OpenEXR versions and Imath versions any way you want, but you have to be consistent, you can't easily build a library without taking that into consideration. Need to make sure version of Imath is consistent across the application, which is what the VFX Reference Platform is all about.
  * Cary: Larry championed this as an issue that would bite people, so he can speak eloquently about this. Conversation spiralled into eradicating Imath out of the interfaces, but it seems to defeat the purpose of splitting off Imath into separate library so more projects could use this, instead of rolling their own vector and matrix classes (MaterialX did that). Best solution is to make sure everyone understands the issue.
  * JC: has there been a consideration of removing the version from the namespace? Doesn't solve ABI issue, but it wouldn't have namespace problems? Cary: versioned namespace is configurable at build time, you have the option to override it. Right default behavior is to be versioned. Other vote to go forward the way they are is that 3.2 may be the last minor release bump in a very long time, don't foresee further changes.

```
            CY2026  CY2025  CY2024  CY2023
OpenEXR     3.4.x   3.3.x   3.2.x   3.1.x
Imath       3.2.x   3.1.x   3.1.x   3.1.x
```

* aswf-docker follow up releases
  * OCIO 2.5.0, OpenEXR 3.4.1, Imath 3.2.2
    * Still waiting for OpenVDB 13.x to meet VFX Platform 2026
  * OIIO 3.1.6.2 for 2025/2026
  * OpenVDB 12.1.0 can build Ax with llvm 16 or newer
  * Pre-build Conan base image to save 10 minutes of CI per Conan package
  * Targeting release in 2 weeks

* ASWF Binary Organization
  * Presented at [2025-10-01 TAC Meeting](https://tac.aswf.io/meetings/2025-10-01/2025-10-01.html)
  * A separate Legal Entity (one per project? or single for ASWF) to contain legal liabilities around binary distribution
  * FOSS licenses typically don't say anything about binaries, only source code
  * Binaries likely aggregate software from a variety of sources (dependencies, compiler runtime, OS components) under different licenses
  * Full implications are not yet very clear, especially for build and distribution pipelines (don't want to add more potential vulnerabilities)
  * But several projects are very keen on distributing binaries, would be good to have a common structure in place?

* `macos-13` GHA runners being retired 2025-12-04, will need to switch to `macos-15-intel` runners.

* Andrew: LF managed projects can get Enterprise-level access to Copilot access at no cost. Can only offer it to active maintainers, and have to do auditing every could of months, there is some cost on the LF side. But it's offered to ASWF maintenances, since they have to be added to a separate Enterprise to be available.
  * Stephen: what requirements are placed on you for auditing? Andrew: they need to be using it and still active maintainers of the project. Stephen: if you are a maintainer but don't intend to use it much, no reason to be added.
  * JF: being part of the maintainers file would be a necessary but not sufficient condition? Andrew: yes.
  * Andrew: an un-capped access to CoPilot. JC: a really good deal! Andrew: have told John about it. Will present it to the TAC. CoPilot did release a CLI which works well, as well as SpecKit (Specification Driven Development), work with the AI to develop Markdown documents, and then tell it to implement the task. Works quite well. Stephen: is the CoPilot CLI part of this access? Andrew: the access token you will get will allow CoPilot CLI to work. You have to select in your account with org is paying for your Copilot access. Stephen: you want to make sure not to use that CoPilot token in a non-ASWF/LF repo! Andrew: I have no knowledge of what we get for logging, not sure what repos you are using CoPilot against, can even use it outside a repo.

## Follow Ups

* Python version recommendation for building wheels
  * [Safer to stick to 3.13 for now?](https://academysoftwarefdn.slack.com/archives/C0169RX7MMK/p1758569907594409)
* Semgrep for Rez
  * [PR Submitted by LF RelEng](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/rez/pull/2025)
  * We do not have a PRO version. The PRO version starts at $700.00 a month for 10 users. Allowance: 10 contributors (counted by people who committed in the last 30 days). Public repos are fine; private repos are okay within that 10-dev allowance. Semgrep Code scanning with the open-source rules. The Semgrep web dashboard (results, trends, triage)
PR annotations/comments on findings. Ability to write/customize rules and run in CI (GHA, etc.)
  * `SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN` added at org level or just for Rez repo?
    * Vanessa said it's at the org level
    * Stephen: same as SonarCloud
    * JF: are projects are auto created in the console? Not clear.
    * Stephen: if you are in the Semgrep dev aswf button, there's a "scan new project" button, get to a pane where you have a list of all the ASWF repos, and can select "add CI job". Semgrep side knows to look for it, and CI side will push. Someone with that permission can select the button to add a new project to the dashboard.
  * Has Rez merged this? Ready to propose to other projects?
  * JC: it seems to work, not sure it's what we initially wanted, but it's a good start. Set up the same way as SonarCloud, run through GitHub actions with a token, can only run when we merge / in the main branch (no access to secrets). Can enable GitHub integration (since I'm an admin for Rez repo). Semgrep can have pull request integration, a button creates a private GitHub app on their behalf, get the integration between PRs and Semgrep, don't have to do it in GHA. Not sure if that's part of Pro subscription, or the free. When I asked Semgrep about Pro version and open source projects, it was somewhat blurry, was hoping that LF could get the answer, but that didn't really happen. But since the button is enabled, it seems we can make the integration work, even without being on the Pro subscription. Andrew: may need admin rights against ASWF org? JC: either I won't be able to do it, or will create a request on the ASWF org admins. Ran a scan, found stuff, we can now tweak the rules.
  * JC : [Initial Rez Results](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/academy_software_foundation/findings)
  * JC: Better than SonarCloud, can write new rules, they are just YAML files, no need to code.
  * Stephen: since Semgrep is good at Python, aswf-docker could be a good project to try adding.
  * JC: communication with Semgrep hasn't been smooth? Andrew: yes that's the feedback. Stephen: when trying to meet between LF and Semgrep, we ended up with someone on the commercial account side, meeting was not very useful, LF had to cancel, so everyone was quite confused. But we ended up making it work.
  * JC: it's a good step in the right direction, if project like it and find value, we can engage with LF to move it to a further level.
  * Stephen: we can demonstrate a use case for the Pro version. But we now have a MVP.
  * JF: worth posting a screenshot

* PyPI Organization for aswf
  * More project joined (7 so far)
    * Need to get OCIO in there
    * Need to follow up on remaining ASFW projects
  * Related to Binary Release effort

## Tools and Links

* [cppstat - C++ Compiler Support Status](https://cppstat.dev/)
* [C++ compiler support](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/compiler_support.html)
* [Automating Distro Updates in CI](https://paretosecurity.com/blog/automating-distro-updates-in-ci/)
  * Contains some interesting links to GHA tooling
