---
title: 2025-06-18
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   18 June 2025

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Jeff Bradley, Dreamworks Animation
* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks / OSL / OIIO

## Apologies

*

## New items

* Discussion about DCO vs CLAs and licensing scanning
  * All ASWF projects have at least DCO?
  * On boarding process for ASWF projects includes license scanning
  * Don't invent your own license

* CI WG TAC presentation
  * Bumped to July 9th
  * Challenge of participation
  * Areas of collaboration with ML / AI WG and progress
  * [Proposed Slide Deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Xa4dwkBtZgyjoxq3qI-oFGQQ8hxOMNxD/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=100489518776563013356&rtpof=true&sd=true)

* aswf-docker updates
  * Released 2025.1 on May 25th, no major outcry
  * Working on next release:
    * ci-openfx, ci-raw2aces build containers
    * OpenVDB, OSL built as Conan recipes (USD as stretch goal)
    * Build Python bindings for OIIO
    * `aswfdocker conandiff`: tool to manage changes to vendored Conan recipes
      * Relies on up-to-date GitHub URL in comments, not very robust
      * Any other approaches to maintain vendored code with local modifications?
    * 2024.3 : update to Conan 2 packages
    * 2025.2 : maintenance release
    * 2026.0 : preview release for VFX Platform 2026, won't be official until ASWF packages release in the fall
  * Larry: last OSL puzzle piece is running tests for OSL on Windows, failures all seem to be related to wonky OIIO build. Don't understand how can I build in OIIO and pass all the tests, but building in context of OSL with a self build of libtiff is refusing to read some images. If there was a one line install from Conan that might work? Can install Conan with `pip install`

* Using OptiX / OpenGL / Vulkan in aswf-docker containers
  * aswf-docker images already include all client side libraries
  * [NVIDIA Container Toolkit](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/latest/install-guide.html) pre-installed on GPU enabled images
  * Maps the GPU device driver and required platform DSOs into the container at startup time
  * By default only maps DSOs required for CUDA, need to enable additional "capabilities" for OpenGL / Vulkan / OptiX
  * YAML quoting in GHA workflows makes this tricky, but this works:

```yaml
    container:
      image: aswf/ci-osl:2025
      options: -e NVIDIA_DRIVER_CAPABILITIES=compute,graphics,utility --gpus all
```

  * OptiX version determined by include files compiled against (aswf-docker includes all versions at release time), but also tied to NVIDIA driver version on runner
    * Our current GHA T4 image has 550.127.05 driver which supports up to OptiX 8.0
    * OptiX release notes state minimum required driver version
  * OSL OptiX test suite now runs
  * Will add a GPU doc section to aswf-docker (or more generally a `HOW_TO_USE.md`)
  * Larry: haven't been able to figure out how much money this is using? Need to take a pass at how much money we spend. Andrew showed me a monthly spreadsheet which can tell which projects can use how many minutes, but don't know if there is any way to know before the end of the month. JF: ask Andrew if spreadsheets can be shared? Larry: we have a monthly cap, but don't want to lock out other projects like OpenVDB.

* PR Pre-merge workflows
  * How do you run something like `clang-format` on a PR and auto commit the results
  * Also updating documentation, regenerating bindings
  * [pull_request context and labeled vs unlabeled](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/writing-workflows/choosing-when-your-workflow-runs/events-that-trigger-workflows#pull_request)
  * [Example of automatically pushing commits in Rez](https://github.com/JeanChristopheMorinPerso/rez-pip/blob/main/.github/workflows/update_pip.yaml#L113-L122)
  * [git-auto-commit](https://github.com/stefanzweifel/git-auto-commit-action)
  * What tooling is OK to require a local dev to have in place to work on ASWF projects?
    * Is assuming Docker OK to allow packaging of toolset?
    * Security vs convenience vs making it easy to volunteer contributions
  * Larry: if the only thing stopping us from requiring regeneration of stub files, in the Docker container we have a fixed environment. It's not unreasonable to ask people to do on their side (but only if you change the Python bindings). But we need to get it to run consistently. It's only one file that has the stubs, don't know enough about how it's generated to understand why he needs it carefully sealed up which would require a Docker container. Otherwise it gets easier. But for `clang-format` would be great to be able to trigger it as part of the PR, it's inconvenient to require people to have the right version of `clang-format` installed. And installing multiple versions of LLVM is asking too much. Each year a new version of LLVM comes out with new options to `clang-format`, don't want to have to do a bunch of reformats every time a new version comes out, we pick one as a standard and stick to it for a couple of years, so we avoid arbitrary reformatting of the code base.
  * Larry: want to write a CI Best Practices guide for the TAC. Best practice to have a build against newer compilers, newer than VFX platform, so you see new warnings / build errors. We would like that moving to VFX Platform 2026 / gcc 14 is not an issue.
  * Larry: [first thread from May 24](https://academysoftwarefdn.slack.com/archives/C0169RX7MMK/p1748109895870809) was that you can't just generate a diff that could then be merged with a single button press.
    * Submit the PR
    * Fails formatting test
    * Apply a label to the PR
    * Triggers a workflow that will cause the formatting to be applied
    * Larry: this might work, might need to set up an additional workflow.
  * [Second thread from June 15](https://academysoftwarefdn.slack.com/archives/C0169RX7MMK/p1750033586628079)

* SonarCloud issue in OIIO
  * Reported by Larry via Slack on 2025-05-25
  * Org level secret inheritance vs GHA YAML?
  * Suddenly stopped working, unclear what changed, but haven't followed up. The history of the SonarCloud jobs where it just stopped.
  * "What percentage of commits are related to GitHub / other dependencies vs our own code". Even with aswf-docker things just break. Constant low level fire fighting. JF: would you use PR tags? Larry: probably, but would be manual process. We test against a number of configs, GitHub started having brown outs about a specific Windows instance they were going to retire, now have to test against new instance.

* Custom images for larger GHA runners
  * Looks like this is generally available now
  * What would be workflow to request custom images? Could aswf-docker produce "pre baked" custom Rocky based images so we don't pay the price of downloading an "OS in a container"?

## Follow Ups

* Semgrep for Rez
  * LF RelEng in talks with Semgrep to "officially" support at org level
  * [Ticket IT-28190](https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/desk/portal/2/IT-28190)
* WG CI as an official ASWF project
  * No progress since last meeting
* GitHub Container Registry
  * No progress since last meeting
* New logo
  * [Updated WG repo](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/wg-ci)
* For pay runner budget
* PyPI Organization for aswf
  * More project joined (7 so far)
    * Need to get OCIO in there

## Tools and Links

* [Tricking GitLab AI into generating malicious code](https://arstechnica.com/security/2025/05/researchers-cause-gitlab-ai-developer-assistant-to-turn-safe-code-malicious/)
* [GitHub MCP Vulnerabilities](https://invariantlabs.ai/blog/mcp-github-vulnerability)
* [GitLab found O(n^2) algorithm in git bundle create](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/2025/06/05/how-we-decreased-gitlab-repo-backup-times-from-48-hours-to-41-minutes/)
* [New Apple Containerization Framework at WWDC](https://github.com/apple/containerization)
  * Efficiently runs Linux containers in micro VMs
* [Bypassing restrictions on GHA reusable workflows is easy](https://blog.yossarian.net/2025/06/11/github-actions-policies-dumb-bypass)
