---
title: 2025-12-03
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   03 December 2025

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks, OSL / OIIO
* Andrew Grimberg, LF RelEng
* Eric Salituro
* Stephen Mackenzie, NVIDIA / Rez
* Paul Molodowitch, NVIDIA

## Apologies

## New items

* Larry: runner issues
  * Running of disk space installing Intel compilers
  * Had a 24 hour period after fixing problems, then it broke again
  * JF: you can just use the for pay runners...
  * Larry: have to make a set of releases to put on different runners just for a release. Want developers to be able to have their CI to tell them if there's an issue before releasing a PR. There are always ways, but it's time consumming to figure out. Do I need to stop using the aswf containers, can't remove from the base image once you are using the containers. Eats up a couple of days every time.
  * JF: free runner disk size hasn't gone up.
  * Larry: matrix of potential jobs gets big quickly. Still trying to be frugal with CI resources. And want everyone to be able to run on their fork.
  * JF: every hour spent by a senior dev on CI is "wasted"
  * Larry: hard to farm out this work to non senior devs. Every breakage is its own snowflake, hard to know what's safe to change. You need to know a lot.
  * Larry: is it a list about is there a way to be able to free up disk space before running a container, so you can run commands outside the container before the container loads? We can delete a lot of disk space outside the container. Andrew: request is to have an ability for container based jobs to execute some "pre commands" before the container is instantiated.
  * JF: can explicitly run a Docker job to run a build, but then you can't run actions inside the build process.
  * Larry: but then you can't use third party actions in your build.
  * Andrew: we are working with GitHub to get discounted runners for ASWF, will make our budget for CI go much further. So paid runners would be a better option. Larry: should be possible to squeeze into the free runners. But takes time to figure out.
  * Andrew: there is a size increase coming to free runners sometime next year, overall size, so should hopefully include disk space. Larry: that would help, we're just on the edge, we don't need 10x bigger, 10% would be fine. Sometimes the error messages are "you need 700MB"... A potential increase in free runners makes me feel better about solving it with paid runners.

* aswf-docker 2024.5 / 2025.4 / 2026.2 releases
  * Feature complete for 2026 with OpenVDB 13
    * Except missed Opensubdiv 3.7.0 (only referenced by USD)
  * [Separate ci-imath image](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/Imath/issues/524)
    * doesn't contain an Imath build, ci-openexr does
  * Convenience scripts to (manually) test "outside Conan" builds in ci-XXXX images

* aswf-docker work in progress
  * OSL converted to Conan
    * OSL provides custom CMake modules like FindImath.cmake, FindLLVM.cmake, ignored by Conan which prefers "config mode" to "module mode" (Conan generates CMake code for dependencies)
    * "custom" logic in unused FindLLVM.cmake has to be replicated somewhere else
      * LLVM / CMake integration was most of the challenge
    * IMATH_INCLUDES vs Imath_INCLUDE_DIRS
  * Missed OpenSubdiv 3.7.0 from VFX Platform 2026
    * Released Oct 29
  * Bump OSL / OIIO / OpenFX / rawtoaces / OpenEXR versions
  * Build CMake with OpenSSL support (maybe)
  * "missing DSO" linker warnings / errors
    * Spurious dependencies for libboost_python
    * RPATH (transitive search) vs RUNPATH (not transitive search / no inherit)
    * linker will not search for transitive dependencies by default when using absolute paths to DSOs even with the right -L options (an issue when using Ninja and link.d files)
      * libboost_python had spurious dependency
      * libuhdr.so internally depends libturbojpeg.so
      * ignore these warnings?
    * Should we discourage CMake setups which build DSOs with RPATH / RUNPATH?
    * Should aswf-docker containers strip (chrpath) all RPATH / RUNPATH from DSOs installed in /usr/local ?
    * [Somewhat related discussion about OIIO vs OCIO vs pystring](https://academysoftwarefdn.slack.com/archives/C0169RX7MMK/p1762886736262629)
  * Would updated 2023 images be useful?
    * Possible, but non trivial amount of work
      * Larry: 3 years is OK. Older years should stay "frozen in amber". We want to make sure we can still build modern software in older versions. We don't want the latest and greatest.
      * Unless something breaks / changes required to keep them working on GitHub actions. Software should still work in older images.
      * JF: hopefully no one is releasing out of those images, so linking against an older DSO without a x.y.z CVE fix.
    * Combinatorial explosion of images
      * Additional ASWF projects
      * Windows / Linux
      * x86_64 / ARM
    * Will be more tractable when work is completed to fully leverage Conan to automate dependency management / job build order

* EOL GitHub Actions for SonarQube / SonarCloud
  * Replace `sonarcloud-github-action` with `sonarqube-scan-action`
    * Larry: updated to new action makes it possible for non-Sonar jobs to work. But my actual Sonar actions have been failing for a couple of weeks which I hadn't noticed, so need more work to make that work again. There are things I like to keep track of in the long run, but not necessary for every PR. If all the other tests pass, I can accept a PR, but want to fix it. I've had long periods of time when Sonar doesn't work. Stephen would say "switch to Semgrep"!
    * Andrew: seems to be a very small limit that we get with Semgrep on free tier, significantly limited compared to SonarCloud.
    * Stephen: we were expecting that Semgrep would give Open Source projects a close to free-ish Enterprise level, but it seems they are giving us more the "free trial" version. Maybe we should not focus on that too heavily. Not a huge fan of SonarCloud either, but "we get what we pay for". Larry: I do like using it, but can be a lot of work to keep it running. Stephen: their web interface and triggering mechanisms seem not very reliable. Not a great way to et a presentatable version of the results into your PR. Most benefits are "post merge" to generate GitHub issues, instead of as part of your development workflow.
  * Anyone have a handy `ripgrep for all ASWF projects` script / alias?
    * JF: don't want to have to git clone / pull
    * Stephen: could generate a super project that has everything as submodules, and could run on there. Could brute force it, have a different rules file at the bottom of each repo.
    * Stephen: there are tools like Cody, SourceBot where you set up a service that crawls your code base (some are AI powered) which gives you a search database for GitHub repos. Can use regex searches, "search for all files that end in .py and search inside of them". A meta index of the repos you load into them. "Does anyone in my company use this function...". Paul: are there free options for these products? Stephen: not sure, ASWF gets a lot of freebies from being part of LF, maybe there are already licensing terms in place.
    * Larry: sometimes you can contact the company directly. Paul: I did something recently where I wanted to stuff internally. I scripted something to use the search API to do customized filter, turned out to be relatively easy. Quick scripts to use the REST API is a strong point for AI generated code, instead of having to learn all the API endpoints. Especially for your own personal use.
    * Stephen: sourcebot.dev/pricing <- free if we host it ourselves, connects to github, an example of the kind of tool.

* Docker Hub plan
  * Which level do we have? Andrew: it may have just expired and we have to re-up that. Currently on "Legacy Free". JF: we need to not get throttled. JF: I could use Admin access. Andrew: Aloys has an account, also "aswfdocker" account which has Aloys as email address. Cost today would be $900 for the year, they have increase significantly, used to be $300 for 5 seats.
  * Could we apply for "Docker-Sponsored Open Source", or can we inherit from LF? Andrew: a couple of projects got into that, they don't give you all the benefits of a paid account, you may still get throttled. We can attempt to get it. Or we can just pay.
  * Do we have API credentials in the GitHub org, or just login?
  * Would be great to get granular download stats for container images to make decisions on support policy
  * Not sure if GitHub container registry offers better stats

* GitHub notifications in Slack Channels
  * Should every project have GitHub notifications routed to Slack channels?
  * Don't believe that would affect costs for our Pro instance
  * Rez, OTIO have them
  * OCIO used to have it in their own Slack
  * I personally give it a glance and you can always mute / unsubscribe?

* Container images for ML WG
  * Just a thought, would that be of any interest?
  * Moves too fast? Containers too large?
  * Could be scripts on top of aswf-docker image which already contains CUDA pre-requisites?

## Follow Ups

* OTIO using Linux ARM runners to release Python wheels

* Adding Imath separately from OpenEXR in VFX Reference Platform
  * [Done](https://vfxplatform.com/)
  * [Dedicated Imath build image](https://hub.docker.com/r/aswf/ci-imath/tags)

* ASWF CI Best Practices Document
  * [Template checked in to TAC repo](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/tree/main/project_best_practices_guides)
  * [Visible via TAC web site](https://tac.aswf.io/project_best_practices_guides/)
  * PRs welcome against `ci.md`
  * Should we take time during a meeting to flesh out what we want to say
    * Larry: worried that these people would be reluctant to update until they have a full result. OK to have intermediate PRs / do small parts. We have nothing now, so everything is a step forward.
    * JF: could use Wiki as a staging ground? Larry: yes, that works.

* PyPI Organization for aswf
  * [ASWF PyPI organization link](https://pypi.org/org/aswf/)
  * Renamed to "ASWF Binary Project a Series of LF Projects, LLC"
  * OTIO, OpenCue have joined
  * Need to follow up on remaining ASFW projects

* GitHub Action Custom Images
  * Any updates on availability?
  * Baking in dependencies for Windows / macOS image as an alternative to aswf-docker support

* Enterprise Level access to CoPilot
  * Has anyone signed up yet?
  * How do we let eligible maintainers know?

## Tools and Links

* [Language aware merging for git](https://lwn.net/Articles/1042355/)

* [PyPI Pending Trusted Publishers for Organizations Feature](https://blog.pypi.org/posts/2025-11-10-trusted-publishers-coming-to-orgs/)

* [OpenFX use of UV inside aswf-docker images](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/openfx/commit/b9866805ddffd3d5ec0fa33999eef51cf39d65a1)
