---
title: 2026-04-22
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   22 April 2026

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks, OSL / OIIO
* Paul Molodowitch, NVIDIA / AOUSD Build Interest Group Vice Chair

## Apologies

## New items

* [VFX Platform 2027 draft](https://vfxplatform.com/#reference-platform) is announced
  * glibc 2.28 to 2.34 means EL 9 as base Linux distribution, first discussed for 2026, but this time it's happening
  * Qt / PySide stay at 6.8.x since next LTS release (6.11.x) happens in the fall, too late for apps to port
  * Python stays at 3.13.x since Qt / PySide 6.8.x doesn't support 3.14.x
  * EL will skip 3.13, but can get it from EPEL, uv
  * Boost 1.88 to 1.91, hopefully less and less important for ASWF projects (mostly used for Python bindings, being replaced by pybind11 / nanobind, maybe some usage in OpenVDB?). Paul: OpenUSD uses its own fork of BoostPython. Larry: I asked for the justification of nanobind vs pybind11, but don't remember it. There's a PR to switch to Nanobind bindings in parallel. Hopefully switch will be complete by 3.2 release in the fall.
  * Usual set of major release updates for OCIO / OpenEXR / OpenVDB
  * OpenUSD remains "out of scope", still felt it moves too fast to lock it down
  * This is only a proposal, feedback is encouraged

* aswf-docker update
  * 2023.3 2024.7 2025.6 2026.4 releases coming soon
    * 2023 images resurrected, updated for Conan 2 (images to be released with updated Rocky 8.10 base image, avoid certificate issues when downloading with curl). Gets most of the 2024 versions except for packages versioned in VFX Platform.
    * OTIO build container, building C++ library (wasn't previously done)
    * Tooling Python updated to 3.10
    * 2023-2026 get latest Python for their year (3.10.20, 3.11.15, 3.13.12)
    * 2026 gets latest OpenEXR, OpenImageIO, OpenFX, OpenShadingLanguage
    * 2024/2025 get OpenEXR security releases
    * May need a SECURITY.md
  * Paul: OpenUSD is working on whether we can release binaries, one of the first thing we need to do is look at aswf-docker approach. Main shortfall is lack of Windows support. aswf-docker is heavily container / docker based, Windows has Docker support running Windows, have used them in some situations, at a minimum level they work, but don't know if they are really usable at scale, other than "toy use". JF: Docker BuildKit is available on Windows. But likely going to provide just Conan packages on Windows and macOS. Larry: I would use that, but not explicitly, same as I have Linux on Ubuntu builds. I also like to test against newer dependencies, and that my builds are as resilient as possible to new versions.
  * Paul: when you say "your CI"? Larry: I mean for OIIO / OSL. The internal CI at Imageworks only tests against the versions we use internally, but I don't have to worry about externally induced failures.
  * Paul: there is Windows support? Larry: the aswf-docker project which provides the Docker container images is only for Linux, but individual projects like OpenEXR / OIIO / OCIO all have Windows and macOS CI. But they do it "wild west", they will install / build the dependencies they need.

* What to do about projects which force a C++ release different than VFX Platform?
  * No standard way to set default C++ version in g++ (that I could find)
  * Not an issue for Conan builds which control C++ version, but...
  * Several projects call `set(CMAKE_CXX_STANDARD 17)` in `CMakeLists.txt` which can be hard to override without patching
  * Projects are usually welcoming of patches for newer C++ versions
  * Do projects using these containers expect that everything in them is built with the "right" C++ year? Or just the right ABI?

* AI-driven security issue reports
  * An issue for high visibility repos
  * Does it help improve code quality, or are they noise?
  * Should there be a policy about this? In SECURITY.md? Should security reports include what LLM was used to generate it? Larry: not really useful.
  * Discussion in private Slack channels
  * Apple maintains its own fork of OpenUSD with its own security fixes. Larry: being on OS release cadence could be an issue, a patch could reveal a vulnerability.
  * Larry: does USD has a stance about the threat model for USD? Do you worry about things like the "Maya virus". Paul: I am concerned about it, but there are other people at NVIDIA concerned about security / USD. Might be good to talk to Josh Miller at NVIDIA, here's the USD person who interfaces with security folks. Impression I get is that it's not a high priority for Pixar, and Apple maintains their own fork, so not a ton of fixes make their way back into the repo. There may be new security processes in place. Larry: was in a parallel discussion, was wondering how a large project like USD handles it. Paul: we've talked about potential for doing security patch fixes between major releases, but that's not been desired so far. NVIDIA maintains security patches against USD and tries to upstream them as quickly as possible. We maintain some older versions for which we still have releases. JF: what about semantic versioning? Paul: every push would up the version, since they don't make guarantees about API or ABI stability. It would become a counter on how many pushes are done, with the current system, it provides some information as to when it was released. Pushing for more stability could have a lot of benefit, but there's been a lot of pushback on that.

* SonarCloud state is not great
  * [Some Wiki Docs](https://lf-aswf.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/CIWG/pages/1098973187/SonarCloud)
  * [ASWF SonarCloud org](https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/academysoftwarefoundation/projects)
  * aswf-docker has failures, being addressed in [PR #379](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-docker/pull/379)
  * OCIO stopped updating: [Issue #2274](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenColorIO/issues/2274)
  * OIIO, OpenEXR, Rez all stopped updating
  * OpenCue, IMath still updating
  * Other projects not using it
  * How can we help? Not easy since analysis typically only triggered on a merge, only project maintainers with commit privileges can do this (a general problem with any external services triggered on a merge). Larry: yes, can't work on a fork. Unless you have your own personal SonarCloud org? Would need to be documented.
  * Better alternatives we should encourage?
  
## Follow Ups

* AOUSD Build Interest Group survey on providing binaries
  * [Form Link](https://forms.gle/mRDmi1o4bY5Ch9Lh6) (s)
* NodeJS 24 for CentOS 7 / glibc 2.17
  * No movement on [PR #190 against nodejs/unofficial-builds](https://github.com/nodejs/unofficial-builds/pull/190)
* RMTC CI requirements
  * No update so far
* GitHub Actions Cache Size Limit
  * Request from OpenRV
  * Did that happen?
* Docker Hub Subscription Plan
  * Not back up as of last month
  * [LF ticket](https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/desk/portal/2/IT-29403)
  * Waiting for business decision
* ASWF CI Best Practices Document
  * [Template checked in to TAC repo](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/tree/main/project_best_practices_guides)
  * No progress yet
* PyPI Organization for aswf
  * Need to follow up on remaining ASFW projects
    * [OpenColorIO](https://pypi.org/project/opencolorio/)
    * [fvdb](https://pypi.org/project/fvdb-core/)
  * JF TODO
* GitHub Action Custom Images
  * Any updates on availability?
  * Baking in dependencies for Windows / macOS image as an alternative to aswf-docker support

## Tools and Links

* [Free RISC-V Runners for GitHub Actions](https://riseproject.dev/2026/03/24/announcing-the-rise-risc-v-runners-free-native-risc-v-ci-on-github/)
* [actionlint: linting for GitHub Actions](https://github.com/rhysd/actionlint/blob/v1.7.12/docs/checks.md)
* [Open Source Security blog post from Astral (they make uv)](https://astral.sh/blog/open-source-security-at-astral)
* [Stacked PRs on GitHub](https://github.github.com/gh-stack/)
* [GitHub Copilot plan changes](https://github.blog/news-insights/company-news/changes-to-github-copilot-individual-plans/)
