---
title: 2026-01-28
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   28 January 2026

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks, OSL / OIIO
* Andrew Grimberg, LF RelEng
* Eric Salituro, Individual
* *Stephen Mackenzie, NVIDIA / Rez*
* *Paul Molodowitch, NVIDIA*

## Apologies

## New items

* How can we best come up with a set of priorities for this year?
  * Figure out it amongst ourselves
  * Ask project maintainers
  * Present a poll to project maintainers
  * Ask for a few minutes at next in-person event to run pollev style poll?
  * Ask for time at the TAC (Larry) -> JF TODO

* aswf-docker image size issues
  * Builds were failing due to images using all available disk space on free runners
  * 2024.5 / 2025.4 / 2026.2 images re-released without spurious Conan cache backed in
  * More relief is coming from building LLVM as DSOs
  * Little progress since December due to personal commitments

* Should this group take "ownership" and responsibility for keeping the [VFX industry build matrix spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1EwRlz5ZYObEOdBfIk8iTX5thlpTyEAfp3bxOgAfFOiU/edit?gid=1592527777#gid=1592527777) updated (it was discussed both in last week's TAC meeting as well as recently on the SSA Slack). Possible ideas:
  * Managing who has write access to it
  * Keeping the "obvious" parts updated based on VFX platform years and commercial DCC release docs
  * Linking to it so it can be found
  * Publicizing it once in a while
  * Updating based on projects (aswf-docker is a good source of truth for that since it has to build most of the projects)
  * and probably the most challenging part, figuring out studio contacts and getting regular updates from them
  * Larry: would love to share the ownership, it gets a slice of my time every once in a while, but would be good to have an official home. And be kept more up to date. I remember it exists once in a whiel and post to remind people to update it. Would be great to have it in a more hands on approach.
  * JF: could this exist as a Confluence page? Larry: or as something on GitHub where people can post PRs. Spreadsheet is low friction, but permissions management is unpleasant. Larry: would be great if people could edit easily.
  * Larry: every couple of quarters I clone the sheet into a different tab and make it read-only, providing a history. Don't know if that would be hard. Andrew: Confluence has history. Larry: but can't easily see a specific version. Andrew: I only use history if there's been a problem with spam.
  * Larry: when you go to vfxplatform, you see the columns for the years. People do want to be able to compare year to year, but not sure if it's used in practice.
  * JF: ideally we want google sheets without google identities

* What to do about Qt, above and beyond the version which is specified by the VFX Reference Platform
  * Best practices / usage patterns for DCC / studio apps
  * Maintaining patch sets (the [Conan recipe in aswf-docker](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-docker/blob/main/packages/conan/recipes/qt/conandata.yml) tries to apply as many as I can find, but it would be good to aggregate what everyone is using across the industry.
  * Clear licensing guidelines
  * The other option that has been discussed is a dedicated WG for QT issues.

* Is there anything we can do about sudden changes in the software load on GitHub Actions runners
  * For instance [Python 3.9 being removed](https://github.com/actions/runner-images/issues/13468)
  * Larry: would it be possible to have a few different flavors of the runner images, for instance without Android, bring up at next GitHub sync up. Andrew: custom images are now available, but they are for-pay / premium runners only. Larry: runner image lives on top of base image? Does that give us opportunity to free up disk space? Andrew: it would. JF: we just want a base image that can run Docker for the ci images. Andrew: it's an image layered on top of base images, so won't help. Larry: all the tests need to be able to run on developer forks, so kinks can be worked out before they submit PRs.
  * Larry: although there are action steps where you can remove software, but can't run an action set before you enter the docker image. Andrew: it should see that it's running in a container, it should use a stripped down runner. Larry: yes that would do the trick. We can't be the only ones? Andrew: maybe others don't have a solution.
  * JF: custom image could be an alternative to a container, and could be used on macOS or Windows.
  * Andrew: For the software load: have to pay attention to the repo. For Python, my team starting to rely on `uv`, including to manage installations. There's a `uv` action to install a particular Python version. Can also run your tests through `uvx`. Moving Jenkins to using `uv`, can run `uv tool install`, rather than a `pip localinstall`. Everything still looks like it's on standard path, but in "micrO" Python virtual environments. `uv` replaces pip, pyenv, virtualenv, setuptools... All faster and better contained. JF: it's the `systemd` of the Python world. Andrew: and it's winning.
  * Larry: if they could be on a schedule where they only change the base image every quarter and pre-publish. Right now it feels that something could break on "any given day", which is a grind. I understand they want to keep them up to day, but at more discreet, planned times would be less disruptive.
  * Larry: they want us to SHA-1 pin actions to prevent spoofing / security issues, not just to lock down, but point taken.

* GitHub notifications in Slack Channels
  * Should every project have GitHub notifications routed to Slack channels?
  * Don't believe that would affect costs for our Pro instance
  * Rez, OTIO have them
  * OCIO used to have it in their own Slack
  * I personally give it a glance and you can always mute / unsubscribe?
  * Andrew: if a project wants it, we will set it up. We've done something similar to that in the IRC days from Garret activity, but people started ignoring it. But we don't want to set it up by default, since it's not necessarily useful by default.
  * JF: I suspect a lot of project leads don't even know this is an option, I'll post a "did you know that".

* Container images for ML WG
  * Just a thought, would that be of any interest?
  * Moves too fast? Containers too large?
  * Could be scripts on top of aswf-docker image which already contains CUDA pre-requisites?

* Larry: considering coordinating a Google Summer of Code, deadline is Feb 3, we had ducked out since they had made the projects smaller and changed the rules, but now they reverted back to support larger projects, and I have a really good student candidate. Something we want to write up as a proposal for CI documentation could be a proposal. If I get support from the other groups, I will be happy to pick it up, but need list of potential projects.
  * JF: I can try to come up a project proposal. That's not as hard a deadline. Larry: has to be a mostly CI project for a mid-undergrad student.

## Follow Ups

* Docker Hub Subscription Plan
  * Are we back on a "non free" plan so we can avoid throttling when downloading container images?
  * Andrew: no, that hasn't happened yet. When last we talked in December, our LF Finance Dept was slow during Holidays, so ticket hasn't moved. I will make that a priority.

* ASWF CI Best Practices Document
  * [Template checked in to TAC repo](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/tree/main/project_best_practices_guides)
  * [Visible via TAC web site](https://tac.aswf.io/project_best_practices_guides/)
  * No progress yet
  * Worth doing something synchronously during a meeting?
  * Should we mostly use Confluence and point to it from TAC? Larry: not sure editing friction is an issue, but want info in an easy form for projects to copy and modify. JF: Confluence could also just point back to TAC repo and/or wg-ci repo.

* PyPI Organization for aswf
  * Need to follow up on remaining ASFW projects
  * JF TODO

* GitHub Action Custom Images
  * Any updates on availability?
  * Baking in dependencies for Windows / macOS image as an alternative to aswf-docker support

* Enterprise Level access to CoPilot
  * Any feedback from those who have used it?
  * Larry, JC Morin? Andrew: a couple of folks got it. Larry: allocating the time to learning it is a challenge, trying to use it every day, kick myself up the learning curve. Trying to identify cases where it saves me a lot of time, but need to explore it more. Dilemma is when I'm trying to get stuff done, I know it's going to take longer to try to do it a different way, also trying different models takes time. Andrew: you have access to Claude Opus 4.5, it's by far the best one. Larry: I'll stick to that. It's on me to try to learn this tool better. Would be farther along if I was putting in more time.

## Tools and Links

* [Interesting blog post on internal issues in LLVM by the lead maintainer](https://www.npopov.com/2026/01/11/LLVM-The-bad-parts.html)
* [Astral pyx package registry](https://astral.sh/pyx). From the creators of `uv`

* [Lockfiles for GitHub Actions](https://gh-actions-lockfile.net/)

* [Using HomeBrew on Linux](https://www.xda-developers.com/homebrew-good-linux-mac/)

* [The pitfalls of git pre-commit hooks](https://jyn.dev/pre-commit-hooks-are-fundamentally-broken/)

* [cup.ai macOS VM creation automation](https://cua.ai/docs/lume/guide/getting-started/introduction)

* [Building and running Qt with the Fil-C compiler](https://git.qt.io/cradam/fil-qt)

* [GitHub lowers charges on larger runners, but introducers charges for self hosted runners](https://resources.github.com/actions/2026-pricing-changes-for-github-actions/)
  * [but then backs out of charging for self hosted runners](https://www.theregister.com/2025/12/17/github_charge_dev_own_hardware/)
