---
title: 2026-02-25
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   25 February 2026

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Cedrik Fuoco, Autodesk / OpenRV
* *Andrew Grimberg, LF RelEng*
* Stephen Mackenzie, NVIDIA / Rez
* John McCarten, Weta / RMTC

## Apologies

* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks, OSL / OIIO
* Eric Salituro, Individual

## New items

* RMTC CI Requirements
  * John McCarten, Weta / RMTC
    * Multiple aspects, core purpose is provenance tracking, any artifact we ingest into a training / inference process can be traced back to its license. We have guardrails to prevent use outside context, and ability to trace an asset all the way back to originally ingested license / permissions. Also a UI, want to allow TDs to create models easily without getting involved in PyTorch. Also an inference portion.
    * We have pushed developed branch, not at a release state yet. Have a TSC, meeting every 2 weeks, trying to get the project up and running. Including CI!
  * Can aswf-docker images be of use? What are they missing?
    * JF: multi-platform? John: Linux only for now, driven by Weta requirements for now. Could be different for other TSC members. Still exploring. Weta is Ubuntu.
  * System libraries? NVIDIA / AMD?
  * PyTorch and friends? Or moves too fast?
  * GPU runners
    * Minimal functionality level? Can you use T4s on GHA?
  * JF: what are your dependencies? John: we have a TOML dependency list, a well defined set of packages. Regarding how to tier it, we don't need very sophisticated training, mostly running training jobs, only training simple networks, can probably do it on CPU only. We have simple and complicated models, but don't use complicated ones in the tests. A critical package we need is a graph DB backend. We have Apache AGE dependency, and Neo4J, but can't use that as part of CI system. For kinds of jobs, mostly populate the database via API, check reports, also kick off simple training jobs, likely CPU only. Run some inferences and check the result. PyTorch is what we use, but we also have a lot of other layers, we tie into Nuke, talking about Nuke and Maya, we build ONNX files. Also an asset management connection, looking at OpenAssetIO. We're touching on almost every part of the VFX stack. Will be using USD as well, also EXR. "Kitchen sink". There can be 2 tiers of tests:
    * Basic tests: Python + backend graph db
    * Upper tier: artifact layer with inference, complexity increases
  * John: have our own build system we would like to reflect.
  * John: can probably get away with "lean" runners. Mostly Python for now. Mostly a "plumbing" issue, we're not pushing research boundaries on models. We can definitely trim back some of the more expensive / costly tests. We download and convert a public image dataset for tests, a "machine learning hello world". That's the biggest part of our local CI system. We use EXR images, but we could skip that. So we don't need GPU access / larger runners for now.
  * John: we have split the project into 2 layers, base layer has few layers, upper layer has more VFX dependencies. So we can split testing, maybe run the CI on the base dependency.
  * JF: we don't have licenses for commercial apps. John: we shell out to Nuke to convert models, but we can skip that. It is part of our publish pipeline, the build step builds into derivative models. We have an ONNX builder, and a CAT builder for Nuke. We are in conversation with Foundry, when we use CAT models in Nuke we don't have provenance info, we have to layer it on top or create a plugin in Nuke. So it's an open discussion.
  * Apache AGE does not have an RPM
  * [Artifactory has a PyTorch plugin](https://jfrog.com/help/r/jfrog-artifactory-documentation/pytorch)
  * John: we have abstracted the database, could store in more trivial formats. Following pattern of abstracting queries to a JSON file that behaves like a database. So if there are issues getting Apache AGE up and running, there are alternatives. But would be important to exercise the Apache AGE branch.
  * John: I need an example project. JF: OIIO / OSL is a good example. Also OpenVDB since Jonathan Schwatz is part of RMTC TSC.
  
* fVDB use of dedicated EC2 runners
  * A Python library of data structures and algorithms for building high-performance and large-domain spatial applications using NanoVDB on the GPU in PyTorch
  * Requires Ampere or better GPUs, not available on GHA larger runners (still T4 only)
  * AWS CodeBuild didn't meet requirements
  * Self managed EC2 runner images
  * [GHA to start / stop dedicated runner](https://github.com/openvdb/fvdb-core/blob/e659d53f52f7b8f542aa996ddaee9b005f15d402/.github/workflows/cu128.yml#L201)
  * Funded by NVIDIA, cost has been fairly minimal so far ($30-75/month, with initial higher costs before optimization)
  * Flexibility to pick required GPU size
  * [More details on page 17 of OpenVDB Annual Review to TAC](https://tac.aswf.io/meetings/2026-02-18/26_openvdb_aswf_review_v2.pdf)

* OpenRV CI Requirements
  * Need to increase GitHub Actions cache storage limit (some cost involved)
  * Potential use of Artifactory server
  * Opportunities to reuse packages / infrastructure from aswf-docker project?
    * Needs multi-platform support
  * Qt build in aswf-docker has QtWebEngine
  * Cedrik: I have a work in progress OpenRV Conan recipe, more a proof of concept, have custom recipes for ffmpeg / cpython. OpenRV has no way to find packages, since we're just building from source. First step is to add that capability to leverage dependency managers. Then we can move to use Conan, we prefer Conan over vcpkg or other ones. We should be able to use what aswf-docker has. But not testing Windows or Mac, so maybe a lot of issues there. Maybe later in the year.
  * Cedrik: OpenRV needs to support FindPackage, it doesn't look in /usr/local. Then we can use ci-openrv, but it won't work for now.
  * JF: ffmpeg is a big dependency? Cedrik: yes, including custom parameters, and there's RV commercial with more codecs. RV commercial needs to change additional parameters. Problematic ones are ffmpeg, python and pyside. Have to check we aren't doing something special with Python, have to look at the recipe. Others are standard dependency. Official OCIO recipe on CCI is lacking some parameters, like disabling the apps. JF: want to add ffmpeg support once OCIO in ffmpeg patches go in. Cedrik: we build OIIO without ffmpeg support to avoid conflicts.
  * Cedrik: opened a couple of tickets with LF releng, Andrew updated the cache limit to 20GB, I can now have 20GB of caching in OpenRV. For Conan registry, we can just use the aswf-conan, we don't need a specific registry, we already have the secrets in the CI. He didn't speak about bandwidth / storage limits. Cedrik: will use a different namespace. JF: could you use a different channel? Cedrik: apparently that's deprecated? To be confirmed. So may use a openrv- prefix for package names. Can't use CCI packages since they are built on free Ubuntu runners.
  * Cedrik: we run a lot of jobs every PR, will look at reducing them. We build Linux / Mac / Windows, release and debug, 2023 and 2024, 16 jobs for every PR. Don't need all those at every PR, we should be able to reduce the number, and reduce cache usage. Hoping to fit the current VFX platform in GHA cache. Between that and Artifactory we should be OK.
  * JF: don't be shy to use larger runners if you need. Cedrik: last year OpenRV used 2.1M minutes of free runner minutes, which is too much (2x OIIO). So want to reduce number of required jobs, and should be able to speed up the build with Conan. Just skipping Python / PySide cuts an hour in the build.

* aswf-docker update
  * About to start releasing 2024.6 2025.5 2026.3
  * LLVM built as:
    * BUILD_SHARED_LIBS : FALSE
    * LLVM_BUILD_LLVM_DYLIB : TRUE
    * LLVM_LINK_LLVM_DYLIB : TRUE
    * Single libLLVM.so and libClang.so, not individual DSOs per function (no libLLVMDemangle.so)
    * Static component libraries (libLLVMDemangle.a...) removed from images to save disk space
    * consumers such as OSL link against libLLVM.so
    * CLI tools dynamically linked against these DSOs
    * saves around 5GB of on-disk storage
  * OSL now a Conan package
    * USD remains big one to convert
  * Version updates for 2026.3
    * OpenSubdiv 3.7.0 was missing from previous 2026 releases

## Follow Ups

* Docker Hub Subscription Plan
  * Not back up as of last month

* ASWF CI Best Practices Document
  * [Template checked in to TAC repo](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/tree/main/project_best_practices_guides)
  * No progress yet

* PyPI Organization for aswf
  * Need to follow up on remaining ASFW projects
  * JF TODO

* GitHub Action Custom Images
  * Any updates on availability?
  * Baking in dependencies for Windows / macOS image as an alternative to aswf-docker support

## Tools and Links

* [GitHub Actions editor and log improvements](https://github.blog/changelog/2026-01-29-github-actions-smarter-editing-clearer-debugging-and-a-new-case-function/)
* [difi: a git diff GUI tool](https://github.com/oug-t/difi)
* [winappCLI : a Windows CLI multi-tool for CI workflows](https://github.com/microsoft/winappCli)
* [Artifact Keeper: open source Artifactory alternative](https://artifactkeeper.com/)
* [Possibly misguided attempt at sanitizing Visual Studio install](https://marler8997.github.io/blog/fixed-windows/)
  * [related Hacker News discussion](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=47022891)
* [anti-slop: a tool for managing low effort LLM PRs](https://github.com/peakoss/anti-slop)
