---
title: 2025-04-23
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   23 April 2025

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Andrew Grimberg, Linux Foundation Release Engineering
* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks / OSL / OIIO
* Stephen Mackenzie, NVIDIA / Rez

## Apologies

*

## New items

* Participation
  * How do we get better than 3 people attending?
* 2025 aswf-docker images
  * Recent releases of OSL and OIIO now work together
  * Slack discussion: for now keep a single ci-openexr to build openexr and imath
  * Starting to release, ci-common:5 images are now live
  * Working on a small hitch for "boost" package
    * Boost recipe has deep but tricky integration with Python
  * perplexity.ai is your friend for CMake / Conan knowledge
    * Large productivity boost
    * Taught me about recent secrets management in Docker BuildKit, nice syntax for injecting secrets into build time environment variables
    * Stephen: most my usage is in a guided tool, I just need one function, but don't want to think too hard. Usually takes 2-3 ties to get what I want, trying to direct the model. Don't get a lot of hallucinations, Perplexity is very Internet focussed. Have also used Cursor, the experience is a lot smoother than any web based tool. Can select a block of code, "write my doc string". Use the AI to do the "plumbing". Biggest critique of Cursor workflow is that it works well in context of an established project with consistent style, the model doing the reading can follow along. If you are starting from an empty file, you have to guide it a lot harder.
  * Qt build takes 3.5h on 8 core / 32GB runner
  * Flakiness in GHA
    * Workaround for GITHUB_REF intermittently empty
    * Builds randomly failing (rate limiting? just a warning)
  * As always debugging GHA CI workflows is tricky
    * Especially when secrets are involved
    * End up having to do it in the "official" repo
    * [Local GHA emulation](https://github.com/nektos/act)
      * Andrew: it doesn't use the GHA runner by default, uses a stripped down version, but can install the full runner (22-23GB). The nektos-act is smaller.
      * You can still use the main one if you want to.
      * Stephen: some tools can attach you to the GitHub shell, but may violate EULA.
      * Andrew: with nektos-act, have to have all the secrets defined locally.
      * Andrew: we don't have an official agreement with JFrog, only things we can stick in there come from a CI environment.
      * Stephen: may be possible to run a local version of Artifactory (container image), that would be a good integration (even with nektos-act).
      * JF: would be good to document this for local development. Stephen: would be interested in that myself if you produce a cheat sheet for Rez/Artifactory. Jean-Christophe trying to figure out a design for cloud package repo for Rez. I've cued up some learning for Conan, their model for using a repository is very similiar to Rez, so lots of shared knowledge from Conan.
  * Will convert long personal TODO list to GitHub issues after 2025 release
* [Conan generated dependency graph for oiio](./oiio_conan_deps.png)
  * Would automatic dependency graphs based on Conan packages for ASWF projects something useful to publish out of the aswf-docker project?
  * Used to generate SBOMs?
  * Stephen: can be tricky if you point different profiles, have to do tricky stuff to ask each package individually what its dependencies are, just have that chunk of JSON, then stitch them together.
  * Larry: I've been staring at the image intently, that reaction shows there is value even to someone who thinks they know their project. Also if projects are all using different XML parsers, they were added separately, maybe before ASWF, or without checking with other projects. OIIO / OSL uses pugixml since we picked it 10 years ago, if it's not the most popular and everyone else has converged, I would be happy to switch. If we can trim the dependency tree by agreeing on some, people should be all for it.
  * Stephen: you want to be cautious the way Conan handles per platform dependencies can break in some exotic circumstances. I took Conan invididual JSON files from Conan, merged them and made my own Mermaid graphs. Doesn't matter so much here since it's very Linuxy / Dockery. Tool to expose merging of JSON may have come from my request.
  * Stephen: when staring at studio-size Rez dependency graphs, it can quickly get out of hand, and there are always interesting facts to be derived. This kind of analysis can be quite useful.
  * JF: maybe worth a TAC presentation?
* CMake 4.0 surprise upgrade
  * Pushed out to Ubuntu based runners (did this come from Ubuntu?)
    * Larry: a package manager can change its default version if you don't specify otherwise. The GHA runner image has some packages installed, I was relying on the fact that the runner images hadn't changed yet, even though the repos had.
    * Then GHA updated the runners, they try to start more or less up to date, that's when a bunch of CI builds had failed since runner images now have CMake 4 baked in.
    * Not clear if it's Ubuntu installed or GH installed CMake.
    * Stephen: I'm so used to systems where we use our own CMake version(s)
    * Larry: I do that also
    * CMake is very simple to build.
    * Larry: I have a lot of tests, some use aswf-docker, mostly validate the historical state (VFX platform years). They have non VFX platform components, but capture what those components were in those years. In some cases I use some dependencies on top of that, sometimes the Ubuntu runners are ahead of the containers, and don't want to pay the cost of downloading the container. Want to be aware of the user experience of someone running on latest Ubuntu image. Many tests lock down the versions, but also want to test against latest. It can be jarring when your test setups fail when "nothing changed".
    * And then the next day get a bunch of PRs that you can't tell if they work because of other failures...
    * Larry: GHA runners can fail fairly frequently, repo downloads fail... Package maintainers do the best they can, but they can't track down all combinations of package interactions, but we need to. Usually when builds fail I wait a couple of days to see if it "fixes itself". Stephen: or wait an hour and retry. Larry: failures when installing dependencies are usually momentary. Sometimes it got the package but its broken.
    * Stephen: sometimes can minimize by wrapping your call in 3 retries, but don't have a lot of control on what the GitHub Actions do on your behalf.
  * Reasonably simple upgrade in most cases (update minimum version in CMakeLists.txt), but broke a lot of builds
  * Will need to upgrade aswf-docker, but for now isolated by "locked" CMake version
* Better build isolation
  * Anything we could do between "everything latest and greatest" GHA runners and fully (mostly?) insulated aswf-docker builds?
* AI coding assistants for ASWF projects
  * Could we try to gather "best practices", recommendations, configuration files?
* [OCIO issue about GLEW deprecation](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenColorIO/issues/2149)
  * GLEW is not maintained, doesn't support EGL
  * Fedora looking at alternatives
  * Try to coordinate between ASWF projects?
  * EGL support to add GPU testing without X server

## Follow Ups

* WG CI as an official ASWF project
  * No progress since last meeting
* Presentation to USD WG
  * [Slides Live Link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ZtOxli-k0Nbae93b-cXKCxn7MF5gIUcR/edit?usp=drive_link&ouid=100489518776563013356&rtpof=true&sd=true)
  * [Slides PDF Link](./CI_WG_Presentation_to_USD_WG_April_2025.pdf)
  * Well attended, interest in running `usdrecord` inside container for regression testing of scenes -> playblast tool
* New logo
  * JF: No progress, but will update Wiki and repo
* Custom images for larger GHA runners
* For pay runner budget
* [Docker Hub pull limits](https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/usage/)
  * TODO: follow up on what that means for us
  * TODO: encourage projects to fully specify where containers are pulled from
* PyPI Organization for aswf
  * Andrew: we have the org, no one has transitioned to it yet. John asked for access today.
  * Stephen: we publish source distributions to PyPI, not the standard way to install Rez for complex reasons, Rez is usually run against a Python interpreter, builds and installs a virtual environment, since you need these CLI utilities that are platform specific. You can "pip install" Rez, but it's really a Rez API, not how you would run Rez in a studio. JC working on some high level PyPI wizardry, we hope it would be possible to make a pip install production install. JF: could aswf org be one of the owners? Stephen: yes, we could do that, that would remove some "bus factor" concerns. How do we do this on our side? Andrew: haven't looked on PyPI myself. JF: we should provide a canonical "thing to do". Andrew: under settings, there's a big red box, "transfer project to an organization". JF: I will transfer aswf-docker package. Andrew: go the project, settings, scroll down, red "transfer project" button (only project owners or managers of the org?). Would need to add someone who is a manager of ASWF (Andrew, or John). Stephen: can add Andrew as an owner, invitation sent.
  * Andrew: accepted invitation
  * [Transfer Project in Settings](./rez_pypi_1.png)
  * [Confirm Transfer Project Dialog](./rez_pypi_2.png)
  * [Rez PyPI showing aswf ownership](./rez_pypi_3.png)
* [Slack: Discussion about DSO versioning](https://academysoftwarefdn.slack.com/archives/C0169RX7MMK/p1743102387754649)
* [Slack: MaterialX interest in GPU runners](https://academysoftwarefdn.slack.com/archives/C0169RX7MMK/p1743777660192739)

## Tools and Links

* [6 usability improvements in GCC 15](https://developers.redhat.com/articles/2025/04/10/6-usability-improvements-gcc-15#6__libgdiagnostics)
* [Reusable GitHub Actions from LF Release Engineering](https://github.com/lfreleng-actions)
  * [Adding a SHA pinned GHA with a dependabot comment](https://github.com/lfit/releng-reusable-workflows/pull/294/files)
  * [Action to check for pinned GHA versions](https://github.com/lfit/releng-reusable-workflows/tree/main/.github/actions/pinned-versions-action)
  * [Running the OSSF scorecard action against a repo](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenImageIO/blob/main/.github/workflows/scorecard.yml)
* [Debian Reproducible Builds](https://lists.reproducible-builds.org/pipermail/rb-general/2025-March/003675.html)
* [JangaFX blog post on Linux binary compatibility](https://jangafx.com/insights/linux-binary-compatibility)
* [LLVM 20 released](https://releases.llvm.org/20.1.0/tools/clang/docs/ReleaseNotes.html)
  * Larry: new default in Homebrew, breaks OSL
* [Writing safe C for curl](https://daniel.haxx.se/blog/2025/04/07/writing-c-for-curl/)
* [CMake resource](https://cliutils.gitlab.io/modern-cmake/README.html)
* [Less Slow code in C++](https://github.com/ashvardanian/less_slow.cpp)
